                                         Preprint.




                                         S ELF - RAG : L EARNING TO R ETRIEVE , G ENERATE , AND
                                         C RITIQUE THROUGH S ELF -R EFLECTION
                                          Akari Asai† , Zeqiu Wu† , Yizhong Wang†§ , Avirup Sil‡ , Hannaneh Hajishirzi†§
                                          †
                                            University of Washington § Allen Institute for AI ‡ IBM Research AI
                                          {akari,zeqiuwu,yizhongw,hannaneh}@cs.washington.edu, avi@us.ibm.com



                                                                                        A BSTRACT




arXiv:2310.11511v1 [cs.CL] 17 Oct 2023
                                                     Despite their remarkable capabilities, large language models (LLMs) often produce
                                                     responses containing factual inaccuracies due to their sole reliance on the paramet-
                                                     ric knowledge they encapsulate. Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG), an ad
                                                     hoc approach that augments LMs with retrieval of relevant knowledge, decreases
                                                     such issues. However, indiscriminately retrieving and incorporating a fixed number
                                                     of retrieved passages, regardless of whether retrieval is necessary, or passages are
                                                     relevant, diminishes LM versatility or can lead to unhelpful response generation.
                                                     We introduce a new framework called Self-Reflective Retrieval-Augmented Gen-
                                                     eration (S ELF -R AG) that enhances an LM’s quality and factuality through retrieval
                                                     and self-reflection. Our framework trains a single arbitrary LM that adaptively
                                                     retrieves passages on-demand, and generates and reflects on retrieved passages
                                                     and its own generations using special tokens, called reflection tokens. Generating
                                                     reflection tokens makes the LM controllable during the inference phase, enabling it
                                                     to tailor its behavior to diverse task requirements. Experiments show that S ELF -
                                                     R AG (7B and 13B parameters) significantly outperforms state-of-the-art LLMs
                                                     and retrieval-augmented models on a diverse set of tasks. Specifically, S ELF -R AG
                                                     outperforms ChatGPT and retrieval-augmented Llama2-chat on Open-domain QA,
                                                     reasoning and fact verification tasks, and it shows significant gains in improving
                                                     factuality and citation accuracy for long-form generations relative to these models.1


                                         1       I NTRODUCTION

                                         State-of-the-art LLMs continue to struggle with factual errors (Mallen et al., 2023; Min et al., 2023)
                                         despite their increased model and data scale (Ouyang et al., 2022). Retrieval-Augmented Generation
                                         (RAG) methods (Figure 1 left; Lewis et al. 2020; Guu et al. 2020) augment the input of LLMs
                                         with relevant retrieved passages, reducing factual errors in knowledge-intensive tasks (Ram et al.,
                                         2023; Asai et al., 2023a). However, these methods may hinder the versatility of LLMs or introduce
                                         unnecessary or off-topic passages that lead to low-quality generations (Shi et al., 2023) since they
                                         retrieve passages indiscriminately regardless of whether the factual grounding is helpful. Moreover,
                                         the output is not guaranteed to be consistent with retrieved relevant passages (Gao et al., 2023) since
                                         the models are not explicitly trained to leverage and follow facts from provided passages. This
                                         work introduces Self-Reflective Retrieval-augmented Generation (S ELF -R AG) to improve an
                                         LLM’s generation quality, including its factual accuracy without hurting its versatility, via on-demand
                                         retrieval and self-reflection. We train an arbitrary LM in an end-to-end manner to learn to reflect on
                                         its own generation process given a task input by generating both task output and intermittent special
                                         tokens (i.e., reflection tokens). Reflection tokens are categorized into retrieval and critique tokens to
                                         indicate the need for retrieval and its generation quality respectively (Figure 1 right). In particular,
                                         given an input prompt and preceding generations, S ELF -R AG first determines if augmenting the
                                         continued generation with retrieved passages would be helpful. If so, it outputs a retrieval token that
                                         calls a retriever model on demand (Step 1). Subsequently, S ELF -R AG concurrently processes multiple
                                         retrieved passages, evaluating their relevance and then generating corresponding task outputs (Step
                                         2). It then generates critique tokens to criticize its own output and choose best one (Step 3) in terms
                                         of factuality and overall quality. This process differs from conventional RAG (Figure 1 left), which
                                             1
                                                 Our code and trained models are available at https://selfrag.github.io/.


                                                                                              1
          Preprint.




                 Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG)                                 Ours: Self-re ective Retrieval-Augmented Generation (Self-RAG)

                Prompt How did US states get their names?                   Prompt How did US states get their names?                           Step 1: Retrieve on demand


                          Step 1: Retrieve K documents                                   US states got their names from a variety of sources.      Retrieve

                                Of the fty states, eleven are named
                                after an individual person.                Step 2: Generate segment in parallel

                                Popular names by states. In Texas,
                                Emma is a popular baby name.                          Prompt +                           Prompt +                              Prompt +

              Retriever         California was named after a ctional
                                island in a Spanish book.
                                                                           Relevant
                                                                                      11 of 50 state names                                                 Relevant California's name has its
              Step 2: Prompt LM with K docs and generate
                                                                                                                         Irrelevant   Texas is named
                                                                           come from persons.              Supported                                     origins in a 16th-century novel
                                                                                                                        after a Native American tribe.
          Prompt How did US states get their names? +                                                                                                    Las Sergas de Esplandián. Partially

                                                                           Step 3: Critique outputs and select best segment
                       US states got their names from a variety of
                       sources. Eleven states are named after an
                       individual person (e.g, California was named
                                                                                                                            >                             >
              LM       after Christopher Columbus). Some states                                                             US states got their names from a variety of sources. 11 of 50
                       including Texas and Utah, are named after
                                                                                          Retrieve          Repeat.…        states names are come from persons.      26 states are named
                       Native American tribe. No information in passages
                Contradictory                                                                                               after Native Americans, including Utah.


              Prompt: Write an essay of your best summer vacation           Prompt: Write an essay of your best summer vacation


                                                               My best…                     No Retrieval     My best summer vacation is when my family and I embarked on a road trip along …




          Figure 1: Overview of S ELF -R AG. S ELF -R AG learns to retrieve, critique, and generate text passages
          to enhance overall generation quality, factuality, and verifiability.


          consistently retrieves a fixed number of documents for generation regardless of the retrieval necessity
          (e.g., the bottom figure example does not require factual knowledge) and never second visits the
          generation quality. Moreover, S ELF -R AG provides citations for each segment with its self-assessment
          of whether the output is supported by the passage, leading to easier fact verification.
          S ELF -R AG trains an arbitrary LM to generate text with reflection tokens by unifying them as the
          next token prediction from the expanded model vocabulary. We train our generator LM on a diverse
          collection of text interleaved with reflection tokens and retrieved passages. Reflection tokens, inspired
          by reward models used in reinforcement learning (Ziegler et al., 2019; Ouyang et al., 2022), are
          inserted offline into the original corpus by a trained critic model. This eliminates the need to host a
          critic model during training, reducing overhead. The critic model, in part, is supervised on a dataset
          of input, output, and corresponding reflection tokens collected by prompting a propriety LM (i.e.,
          GPT-4; OpenAI 2023). While we draw inspiration from studies that use control tokens to start and
          guide text generation (Lu et al., 2022; Keskar et al., 2019), our trained LM uses critique tokens to
          assess its own predictions after each generated segment as an integral part of the generation output.
          S ELF -R AG further enables a customizable decoding algorithm to satisfy hard or soft constraints,
          which are defined by reflection token predictions. In particular, our inference-time algorithm enables
          us to (1) flexibly adjust retrieval frequency for different downstream applications and (2) customize
          models’ behaviors to user preferences by leveraging reflection tokens through segment-level beam
          search using the weighted linear sum of the reflection token probabilities as segment score.
          Empirical results on six tasks, including reasoning and long-form generation, demonstrate that S ELF -
          R AG significantly outperforms pre-trained and instruction-tuned LLMs that have more parameters and
          widely adopted RAG approaches with higher citation accuracy. In particular, S ELF -R AG outperforms
          retrieval-augmented ChatGPT on four tasks, Llama2-chat (Touvron et al., 2023) and Alpaca (Dubois
fi   fl

          et al., 2023) on all tasks. Our analysis demonstrates the effectiveness of training and inference with
                     fi




          reflection tokens for overall performance improvements as well as test-time model customizations
          (e.g., balancing the trade-off between citation previsions and completeness).

          2        R ELATED W ORK
          Retrieval-Augmented Generation. Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) augments the input
          space of LMs with retrieved text passages (Guu et al., 2020; Lewis et al., 2020), leading to large
          improvements in knowledge-intensive tasks after fine-tuning or used with off-the-shelf LMs (Ram
          et al., 2023). A more recent work (Luo et al., 2023) instruction-tunes an LM with a fixed number


                                                                                                     2
Preprint.




of retrieved passages prepended to input, or pre-train a retriever and LM jointly, followed by few-
shot fine-tuning on task datasets (Izacard et al., 2022b). While prior work often retrieves only
once at the beginning, Jiang et al. (2023) propose to adaptively retrieve passages for generation
on top of a proprietary LLM or Schick et al. (2023) train an LM to generate API calls for named
entities. Yet, the improved task performance of such approaches often comes at the expense of
runtime efficiency (Mallen et al., 2023), robustness to irrelevant context (Shi et al., 2023), and lack of
attributions (Liu et al., 2023a; Gao et al., 2023). We introduce a method to train an arbitrary LM to
learn to use retrieval on-demand for diverse instruction-following queries and introduce controlled
generation guided by reflections tokens to further improve generation quality and attributions.
Concurrent RAG work. A few concurrent works2 on RAG propose new training or prompting
strategies to improve widely-adopted RAG approaches. Lin et al. (2023) fine-tune both the retriever
and LM on instruction-tuning datasets in two steps. While we also train our model on diverse
instruction-following datasets, S ELF -R AG enables retrieval on demand and selection of the best
possible model output via fine-grained self-reflection, making it widely applicable and more robust
and controllable. Yoran et al. (2023) use a natural language inference model and Xu et al. (2023) use
a summarization model to filter out or compress retrieved passages before using them to prompt the
LM to generate the output. S ELF -R AG processes passages in parallel and filters out irrelevant ones
through self-reflection, without relying on external models at inference. Moreover, our self-reflection
mechanism also evaluates other aspects of the model output quality including factuality. LATS (Zhou
et al., 2023) prompt off-the-shelf LMs to search for relevant information for question answering tasks
and to generate with tree search, guided by LM-generated value scores. While their value function
simply indicates an overall score of each generation, S ELF -R AG trains to an arbitrary LM to learn to
generate fine-grained self-reflection and customizable inference.
Training and generating with critics. Training LLMs with reinforcement learning (e.g., Proximal
Policy Optimization or PPO; Schulman et al. 2017) from human feedback (RLHF) has proven
effective in aligning LLMs with human preferences (Ouyang et al., 2022). Wu et al. (2023) introduce
fine-grained RLHF with multiple reward models. Though our work also studies fine-grained critique
on retrieval and generation, we train our target LM on task examples augmented with reflection
tokens from a critic model offline, with a far lower training cost compared to RLHF. In addition,
reflection tokens in S ELF -R AG enable controllable generation at inference, while RLHF focuses on
human preference alignment during training. Other works use general control tokens to guide LM
generation (Lu et al., 2022; Korbak et al., 2023), while S ELF -R AG uses reflection tokens to decide the
need for retrieval and to self-evaluate generation quality. Xie et al. (2023) propose a self-evaluation-
guided decoding framework, but they focus only on reasoning tasks with one evaluation dimension
(reasoning path consistency) and without retrieval. Recent work on LLM refinement (Dhuliawala
et al., 2023; Madaan et al., 2023; Paul et al., 2023) prompts a model to generate task output, natural
language feedback and refined task output iteratively, but at the cost of inference efficiency.


3       S ELF -R AG : L EARNING TO R ETRIEVE , G ENERATE AND C RITIQUE

We introduce Self-Reflective Retrieval-Augmented Generation (S ELF -R AG), shown in Figure 1.
S ELF -R AG is a framework that enhances the quality and factuality of an LLM through retrieval and
self-reflection, without sacrificing LLM’s original creativity and versatility. Our end-to-end training
lets an LM M generate text informed by retrieved passages, if needed, and criticize the output by
learning to generate special tokens. These reflection tokens (Table 1) signal the need for retrieval
or confirm the output’s relevance, support, or completeness. In contrast, common RAG approaches
retrieve passages indiscriminately, without ensuring complete support from cited sources.

3.1      P ROBLEM F ORMALIZATION AND OVERVIEW

Formally, given input x, we train M to sequentially generate textual outputs y consisting of multiple
segments y = [y1 , . . . , yT ], where yt indicates a sequence of tokens for the t-th segment.3 Generated
tokens in yt include text from the original vocabulary as well as the reflection tokens (Table 1).
    2
    All work is arXived within a week of this preprint.
    3
    In this paper, we treat one sentence as a segment in our experiments, but our framework is applicable to any
segment unit (i.e., sub-sentence).


                                                       3
Preprint.




 Type                   Input        Output                          Definitions
  Retrieve              x / x, y     {yes, no, continue}             Decides when to retrieve with R
  I S R EL              x, d         {relevant, irrelevant}          d provides useful information to solve x.
  I S S UP              x, d, y      {fully supported, partially     All of the verification-worthy statement in y
                                     supported, no support}          is supported by d.
   I S U SE             x, y         {5, 4, 3, 2, 1}                 y is a useful response to x.

Table 1: Four types of reflection tokens used in S ELF -R AG. Each type uses several tokens to represent
its output values. The bottom three rows are three types of Critique tokens, and the bold text indicates
the most desirable critique tokens. x, y, d indicate input, output, and a relevant passage, respectively.

Algorithm 1 S ELF -R AG Inference
Require: Generator LM M, Retriever R, Large-scale passage collections {d1 , . . . , dN }
 1: Input: input prompt x and preceding generation y<t , Output: next output segment yt
 2: M predicts Retrieve given (x, y<t )
 3: if Retrieve == Yes then
 4:     Retrieve relevant text passages D using R given (x, yt−1 )                         ▷ Retrieve
 5:     M predicts I S R EL given x, d and yt given x, d, y<t for each d ∈ D              ▷ Generate
 6:     M predicts I S S UP and I S U SE given x, yt , d for each d ∈ D                    ▷ Critique
 7:     Rank yt based on I S R EL , I S S UP , I S U SE                    ▷ Detailed in Section 3.3
 8: else if Retrieve == No then
 9:     Mgen predicts yt given x                                                          ▷ Generate
10:     Mgen predicts I S U SE given x, yt                                                 ▷ Critique


Inference overview. Figure 1 and Algorithm 1 present an overview of S ELF -R AG at inference. For
every x and preceding generation y<t , the model decodes a retrieval token to evaluate the utility
of retrieval. If retrieval is not required, the model predicts the next output segment, as it does in a
standard LM. If retrieval is needed, the model generates: a critique token to evaluate the retrieved
passage’s relevance, the next response segment, and a critique token to evaluate if the information in
the response segment is supported by the passage. Finally, a new critique token evaluates the overall
utility of the response.4 To generate each segment, S ELF -R AG processes multiple passages in parallel
and uses its own generated reflection tokens to enforce soft constraints (Section 3.3) or hard control
(Algorithm 1) over the generated task output. For instance, in Figure 1 (right), the retrieved passages
d1 is selected at the first time step since d2 does not provide direct evidence ( I S R EL is Irrelevant)
and d3 output is only partially supported while d1 are fully supported.
Training overview. S ELF -R AG enables an arbitrary LM to generate text with reflection tokens
by unifying them as next token predictions from the expanded model vocabulary (i.e., the original
vocabulary plus reflection tokens). Specifically, we train the generator model M on a curated corpus
with interleaving passages retrieved by a retriever R and reflection tokens predicted by a critic model
C (summarized in Appendix Algorithm 2). We train C to generate reflection tokens for evaluating
retrieved passages and the quality of a given task output (Section 3.2.1). Using the critic model, we
update the training corpus by inserting reflection tokens into task outputs offline. Subsequently, we
train the final generator model (M) using the conventional LM objective (Section 3.2.2) to enable
M to generate reflection tokens by itself without relying on the critic at inference time.

3.2      S ELF -R AG T RAINING

Here, we describe the supervised data collection and training of two models, the critic C (Section 3.2.1)
and the generator M (Section 3.2.2).

3.2.1         T RAINING THE C RITIC M ODEL
Data collection for critic model. Manual annotation of reflection tokens for each segment is
expensive (Wu et al., 2023). A state-of-the-art LLM like GPT-4 (OpenAI, 2023) can be effectively
   4
       We follow Liu et al. (2023a) in using a “perceived” utility value that is independent of retrieved passages.


                                                          4
     Preprint.




        Input: Write an essay of your best summer vacation          Input: How did US states get their names?

        Output: My best summer vacation was a magical escape        Output: 1 of 50 states names come from persons. For instance, Louisiana was named in honor
        to the coastal town of Santorini. The azure waters,         of King Louis XIV of France and Georgia was named after King George II.
        charming white-washed building are unforgettable.
                                                                        Critic LM                                                                     Retriever

                                                                    Augmented Output:        Retrieve     <p>Of the fty states, eleven are named after an individual person</p>.
        Augmented Output: No Retrieval My best summer
        vacation was a magical escape to the coastal town of        Relevant   11 of 50 states’ names come from person.        Supported   Retrieve     <p>LOUISIANA: Named in

        Santorini. No Retrieval The azure waters, charming white-   honor of Louis XIV of France.</p>. Relevant     For instance, Louisiana was named after King Louis XIV, and
        washed building are unforgettable experience. Util: 5       Georgia was named after King George II.       Partially   Util: 5




     Figure 2: S ELF -R AG training examples. The left example does not require retrieval while the right
     one requires retrieval; thus, passages are inserted. More examples are in Appendix Table 4.


     used to generate such feedback (Liu et al., 2023b). However, depending on such proprietary LMs
     can raise API costs and diminish reproducibility (Chen et al., 2023). We create supervised data by
     prompting GPT-4 to generate reflection tokens and then distill their knowledge into an in-house C.
     For each group of reflection tokens, we randomly sample instances from the original training data:
     {X sample , Y sample } ∼ {X, Y }. As different reflection token groups have their own definitions and
     input, as shown in Table 1, we use different instruction prompts for them. Here, we use Retrieve as
     an example. We prompt GPT-4 with a type-specific instruction (“Given an instruction, make a
     judgment on whether finding some external documents from the web helps to generate a better
     response.”) followed by few-shot demonstrations I the original task input x and output y to predict
     an appropriate reflection token as text: p(r|I, x, y). Manual assessment reveals that GPT-4 reflection
     token predictions show high agreement with human evaluations. We collect 4k-20k supervised
     training data for each type and combine them to form training data for C. Appendix Section D shows
     the full list of instructions, and A.1 contains more details and our analysis.

     Critic learning. After we collect training data Dcritic , we initialize C with a pre-trained LM and
     train it on Dcritic using a standard conditional language modeling objective, maximizing likelihood:
                                  max E((x,y),r)∼Dcritic log pC (r|x, y), r for reflection tokens.                                                                                 (1)
                                     C

     Though the initial model can be any pre-trained LM, we use the same one as the generator LM
     (i.e., Llama 2-7B; Touvron et al. 2023) for C initialization. The critic achieves a higher than 90%
     agreement with GPT-4-based predictions on most reflection token categories (Appendix Table 5).

     3.2.2      T RAINING THE G ENERATOR M ODEL
     Data collection for generator. Given an input-output pair (x, y), we augment the original output
     y using the retrieval and critic models to create supervised data that precisely mimics the S ELF -
     R AG inference-time process (Section 3.1). For each segment yt ∈ y, we run C to assess whether
     additional passages could help to enhance generation. If retrieval is required, the retrieval special
     token Retrieve =Yes is added, and R retrieves the top K passages, D. For each passage, C further
     evaluates whether the passage is relevant and predicts I S R EL . If a passage is relevant, C further
     evaluates whether the passage supports the model generation and predicts I S S UP . Critique tokens
      I S R EL and I S S UP are appended after the retrieved passage or generations. At the end of the output, y
     (or yT ), C predicts the overall utility token I S U SE , and an augmented output with reflection tokens
     and the original input pair is added to Dgen . See the example training data in Figure 2.
     Generator learning. We train the generator model M by training on the curated corpus augmented
     with reflection tokens Dgen using the standard next token objective:
                                                         max E(x,y,r)∼Dgen log pM (y, r|x).                                                                                        (2)
                                                           M

     Unlike C training (Eq. 1), M learns to predict the target output as well as the reflection tokens. During
fi

     training, we mask out the retrieved text chunks (surrounded by <p> and </p> in Figure 2) for loss
     calculation and expand the original vocabulary V with a set of reflection tokens { Critique , Retrieve }.

     Connections to prior work on learning with critique. Recent work incorporates additional
     critique (feedback) during training, e.g., RLHF (Ouyang et al. 2022) via PPO. While PPO relies on


                                                                                       5
Preprint.




separate reward models during training, we compute critique offline and directly insert them into the
training corpus, where the generator LM is trained with a standard LM objective. This significantly
reduces training costs compared to PPO. Our work also relates to prior work that incorporates special
tokens to control generation (Keskar et al., 2019; Lu et al., 2022; Korbak et al., 2023). Our S ELF -R AG
learns to generate special tokens to evaluate its own prediction after each generated segment, enabling
the use of a soft re-ranking mechanism or hard constraints at inference (discussed next).

3.3   S ELF -R AG I NFERENCE

Generating reflection tokens to self-evaluate its own output makes S ELF -R AG controllable during the
inference phase, enabling it to tailor its behavior to diverse task requirements. For tasks demanding
factual accuracy (Min et al., 2023), we aim for the model to retrieve passages more frequently to
ensure that the output aligns closely with the available evidence. Conversely, in more open-ended
tasks, like composing a personal experience essay, the emphasis shifts towards retrieving less and
prioritizing the overall creativity or utility score. In this section, we describe approaches to enforce
control to meet these distinct objectives during the inference process.
Adaptive retrieval with threshold. S ELF -R AG dynamically decides when to retrieve text passages by
predicting Retrieve . Alternatively, our framework allows a threshold to be set. Specifically, if the prob-
ability of generating the Retrieve =Yes token normalized over all output tokens in Retrieve surpasses a
designated threshold, we trigger retrieval (details in Appendix Section A.3).
Tree-decoding with critique tokens. At each segment step t, when retrieval is required, based either
on hard or soft conditions, R retrieves K passages, and the generator M processes each passage in
parallel and outputs K different continuation candidates. We conduct a segment-level beam search
(with the beam size=B) to obtain the top-B segment continuations at each timestamp t, and return
the best sequence at the end of generation. The score of each segment yt with respect to passage d is
updated with a critic score S that is the linear weighted sum of the normalized probability of each
 Critique token type. For each critique token group G (e.g., I S R EL ), we denote its score at timestamp
t as sGt , and we compute a segment score as follows:

                        f (yt , d, Critique ) = p(yt |x, d, y<t )) + S( Critique ), where               (3)
                                          X
                        S( Critique ) =        wG sG
                                                   t for G = { I S R EL , I S S UP , I S U SE },        (4)
                                         G∈G
             pt (r̂)
where sG
       t = PN G                stands for the generation probability of the most desirable reflection token
                i=1 pt (ri )
r̂ (e.g., I S R EL =Relevant) for the critique token type G with N G distinct tokens (that represent
different possible values for G). The weights wG in Eq. 4 are hyperparameters that can be adjusted
at inference time to enable customized behaviors at test time. For instance, to ensure that result
y is mostly supported by evidence, we can set a weight term for the I S S UP score higher, while
relatively lowering weights for other aspects. Alternatively, we could further enforce hard constraints
during decoding using Critique . Instead of using a soft reward function in Eq. 4, we could explicitly
filter out a segment continuation when the model generates an undesirable Critique token (e.g.,
  I S S UP =No support) . Balancing the trade-off between multiple preferences has been studied
in RLHF (Touvron et al., 2023; Wu et al., 2023), which often requires training to change models’
behaviors. S ELF -R AG tailors an LM with no additional training.

4     E XPERIMENTS
4.1   TASKS AND DATASETS

We conduct evaluations of our S ELF -R AG and diverse baselines on a range of downstream tasks,
holistically evaluating outputs with metrics designed to assess overall correctness, factuality, and
fluency. Throughout these experiments, we conduct zero-shot evaluations, where we provide instruc-
tions describing tasks without few-shot demonstrations (Wei et al., 2022; Sanh et al., 2022). Details of
our experiments’ settings, including test-time instructions, are available in the Appendix Section B.1.
Closed-set tasks include two datasets, i.e., a fact verification dataset about public health (PubHealth;
Zhang et al. 2023) and a multiple-choice reasoning dataset created from scientific exams (ARC-


                                                           6
Preprint.




Challenge; Clark et al. 2018). We use accuracy as an evaluation metric and report on the test set. We
aggregate the answer probabilities of target classes for both of these datasets (Appendix Section B.2).
Short-form generations tasks include two open-domain question answering (QA) datasets,
PopQA (Mallen et al., 2023) and TriviaQA-unfiltered (Joshi et al., 2017), where systems need
to answer arbitrary questions about factual knowledge. For PopQA, we use the long-tail subset,
consisting of 1,399 rare entity queries whose monthly Wikipedia page views are less than 100. As the
TriviaQA-unfiltered (open) test set is not publicly available, we follow prior work’s validation and
test split (Min et al., 2019; Guu et al., 2020), using 11,313 test queries for evaluation. We evaluate
performance based on whether gold answers are included in the model generations instead of strictly
requiring exact matching, following Mallen et al. (2023); Schick et al. (2023).
Long-form generation tasks include a biography generation task (Min et al., 2023) and a long-form
QA task ALCE-ASQA Gao et al. (2023); Stelmakh et al. (2022). We use FactScore (Min et al.,
2023) to evaluate biographies, and we use official metrics of correctness (str-em), fluency based on
MAUVE (Pillutla et al., 2021), and citation precision and recall (Gao et al., 2023) for ASQA. 5

4.2      BASELINES

Baselines without retrievals. We evaluate strong publicly available pre-trained LLMs,
Llama27 B,13 B (Touvron et al., 2023), instruction-tuned models, Alpaca7 B,13 B (Dubois et al., 2023)
(our replication based on Llama2); and models trained and reinforced using private data, Chat-
GPT (Ouyang et al., 2022) and Llama2-chat13 B . For instruction-tuned LMs, we use the official
system prompt or instruction format used during training if publicly available. We also compare our
method to concurrent work, CoVE65 B (Dhuliawala et al., 2023), which introduces iterative prompt
engineering to improve the factuality of LLM generations.
Baselines with retrievals. We evaluate models augmented with retrieval at test time or during training.
The first category includes standard RAG baselines, where an LM (Llama2, Alpaca) generates output
given the query prepended with the top retrieved documents using the same retriever as in our system.
It also includes Llama2-FT, where Llama2 is fine-tuned on all training data we use without the
reflection tokens or retrieved passages. We also report the result of retrieval-augmented baselines
with LMs trained with private data: Ret-ChatGPT and Ret-Llama2-chat, which deploy the same
augmentation technique above, as well as perplexity.ai, an InstructGPT-based production search
system. The second category includes concurrent methods that are trained with retrieved text
passages, i.e., SAIL (Luo et al., 2023) to instruction-tune an LM on the Alpaca instruction-tuning
data with top retrieved documents inserted before instructions, and Toolformer (Schick et al., 2023)
to pre-train an LM with API calls (e.g., Wikipedia APIs).6

4.3      E XPERIMENTAL SETTINGS

Training data and settings. Our training data consists of diverse instruction-following input-output
pairs. In particular, we sample instances from Open-Instruct processed data (Wang et al., 2023) and
knowledge-intensive datasets (Petroni et al., 2021; Stelmakh et al., 2022; Mihaylov et al., 2018). In
total, we use 150k instruction-output pairs. We use Llama2 7B and 13B (Touvron et al., 2023) as
our generator base LM, and we use Llama2 7B as our base critic LM. For the retriever model R, we
use off-the-shelf Contriever-MS MARCO (Izacard et al., 2022a) by default and retrieve up to ten
documents for each input. More training details are in the Appendix Section B.1.
Inference settings. As a default configuration, we assign the weight terms I S R EL , I S S UP , I S U SE
values of 1.0, 1.0 and 0.5, respectively. To encourage frequent retrieval, we set the retrieval threshold
to 0.2 for most tasks and to 0 for ALCE (Gao et al., 2023) due to citation requirements. We speed
up inference using vllm (Kwon et al., 2023). At each segment level, we adopt a beam width of 2.
For a token-level generation, we use greedy decoding. By default, we use the top five documents
from Contriever-MS MARCO (Izacard et al., 2022a); for biographies and open-domain QA, we
use additional top five documents retrieved by a web search engine, following Luo et al. (2023);
for ASQA, we use the author-provided top 5 documents by GTR-XXL (Ni et al., 2022) across all
baselines for a fair comparison.
   5
       https://github.com/princeton-nlp/ALCE
   6
       We report numbers using the results reported in the paper as the implementations are not available.


                                                         7
Preprint.




Table 2: Overall experiment results on six tasks. Bold numbers indicate the best performance among
non-proprietary models, and gray-colored bold text indicates the best proprietary model when
they outperforms all non-proprietary models. ∗ indicates concurrent or recent results reported by
concurrent work. – indicates numbers that are not reported by the original papers or are not applicable.
Models are sorted based on scale. FS, em, rg, mau, prec, rec denote FactScore (factuality); str-em,
rouge (correctness); MAUVE (fluency); citation precision and recall, respectively.

                             Short-form         Closed-set       Long-form generations (with citations)
                           PopQA TQA           Pub ARC         Bio                 ASQA
    LM                       (acc) (acc)      (acc) (acc)     (FS) (em)     (rg) (mau) (pre) (rec)
                                           LMs with proprietary data
    Llama2-c13 B             20.0   59.3     49.4     38.4 55.9 22.4          29.6   28.6      –      –
    Ret-Llama2-c13 B         51.8   59.8     52.1     37.9 79.9 32.8          34.8   43.8   19.8   36.1
    ChatGPT                  29.3   74.3     70.1     75.3 71.8 35.3          36.2   68.8      –      –
    Ret-ChatGPT              50.8   65.7     54.7     75.3       – 40.7       39.9   79.7   65.1   76.6
    Perplexity.ai               –      –        –        – 71.2       –          –      –      –      –
                                           Baselines without retrieval
    Llama27 B                14.7   30.5      34.2     21.8 44.5       7.9    15.3   19.0     –      –
    Alpaca7 B                23.6   54.5      49.8     45.0 45.8 18.8         29.4   61.7     –      –
    Llama213 B               14.7   38.5      29.4     29.4 53.4       7.2    12.4   16.0     –      –
    Alpaca13 B               24.4   61.3      55.5     54.9 50.2 22.9         32.0   70.6     –      –
    CoVE65 B *                  –      –          –       – 71.2         –       –      –     –      –
                                            Baselines with retrieval
    Toolformer*6 B              –   48.8         –       –        –       –      –      –      –      –
    Llama27 B                38.2   42.5      30.0    48.0 78.0        15.2   22.1   32.0    2.9    4.0
    Alpaca7 B                46.7   64.1      40.2    48.0 76.6        30.9   33.3   57.9    5.5    7.2
    Llama2-FT7 B             48.7   57.3      64.3    65.8 78.2        31.0   35.8   51.2    5.0    7.5
    SAIL*7 B                    –      –      69.2    48.4        –       –      –      –      –      –
    Llama213 B               45.7   47.0      30.2    26.0 77.5        16.3   20.5   24.7    2.3    3.6
    Alpaca13 B               46.1   66.9      51.1    57.6 77.7        34.8   36.7   56.6    2.0    3.8
    Our S ELF -R AG 7 B      54.9   66.4      72.4    67.3 81.2        30.0   35.7   74.3   66.9   67.8
    Our S ELF -R AG 13 B     55.8   69.3      74.5    73.1 80.2        31.7   37.0   71.6   70.3   71.3



5     R ESULTS AND A NALYSIS

5.1      M AIN R ESULTS

Comparison against baselines without retrieval. Table 2 (top) presents the baselines without
retrieval. Our S ELF -R AG (bottom two rows) demonstrates a substantial performance advantage
over supervised fine-tuned LLMs in all tasks and even outperforms ChatGPT in PubHealth, PopQA,
biography generations, and ASQA (Rouge and MAUVE). Our approach also significantly outperforms
a concurrent method that employs sophisticated prompt engineering; specifically, on the bio generation
task, our 7B and 13B models outperform the concurrent CoVE (Dhuliawala et al., 2023), which
iteratively prompts Llama265 B to refine output.
Comparison against baselines with retrieval. As shown in Tables 2 (bottom), our S ELF -R AG also
outperforms existing RAG in many tasks, obtaining the best performance among non-proprietary
LM-based models on all tasks. While our method outperforms other baselines, on PopQA or Bio,
powerful instruction-tuned LMs with retrieval (e.g., LLama2-chat, Alpaca) show large gains from
their non-retrieval baselines. However, we found that these baselines provide limited solutions for
tasks where we cannot simply copy or extract sub-strings of retrieved passages. On PubHealth
and ARC-Challenge, baselines with retrieval do not improve performance notably from their no-
retrieval counterparts. We also observe that most baselines with retrieval struggle to improve citation
accuracy. On ASQA, our model shows significantly higher citation precision and recall than all
models except ChatGPT. Gao et al. (2023) found that ChatGPT consistently exhibits superior efficacy
in this particular task, surpassing smaller LMs. Our S ELF -R AG bridges this performance gap, even
outperforming ChatGPT in citation precision, which measures whether the model-generated claim is
fully supported by cited evidence. We also found that on the metrics for factual precision, S ELF -R AG
7B occasionally outperforms our 13B due to the tendency of smaller S ELF -R AG to often generate


                                                       8
Preprint.




                                                                                                                    PubHealth
                                                        70.5                                       1.00                                1.0
                     PQA     Med      AS

                                                                                                                                         Frequency
                                                                                                   0.99
                                            Precision                                   Accuracy
                     (acc)   (acc)   (em)
                                                                                                                                       0.5
 S ELF -R AG (50k)   45.5    73.5    32.1               70.0                                       0.99
 Training                                                                                          0.98                                0.0
                                                                       1           2                       0.0     0.2     0.4   0.6
 No Retriever R      43.6    67.8    31.0                                                                                PopQA
 No Critic C         42.6    72.0    18.1                                                            1.0                               1.00
                                                         95

                                                                                                                                             Frequency
                                                                                                                                       0.75
                                                                                          Accuracy
 Test                                                                                                0.8
 No retrieval        24.7    73.0     –         Mauve    90                                                                            0.50
 Hard constraints    28.3    72.6     –                                                              0.6
 Retrieve top1       41.8    73.1    28.6                                                                                              0.25
                                                                        1           2                      0.0     0.2 0.4 0.6
 Remove I S S UP     44.1    73.2    30.6                      Weight for IsSupport                              Retrieval Threshold
              (a) Ablation                                 (b) Customization                                      (c) Retrieval

Figure 3: Analysis on S ELF -R AG: (a) Ablation studies for key components of S ELF -R AG training
and inference based on our 7B model. (b) Effects of soft weights on ASQA citation precision and
Mauve (fluency). (c) Retrieval frequency and normalized accuracy on PubHealth and PopQA.


precisely grounded yet shorter outputs. Llama2-FT7 B , which is the baseline LM trained on the same
instruction-output pairs as S ELF -R AG without retrieval or self-reflection and is retrieval-augmented
at test time only, lags behind S ELF -R AG. This result indicates S ELF -R AG gains are not solely from
training data and demonstrate the effectiveness of S ELF -R AG framework.

5.2   A NALYSIS

Ablation studies. We conduct a set of ablations of our framework to identify which factors play
key roles. We evaluate two model variants trained differently than our model: No Retriever trains an
LM using the standard instruction-following method given instruction-output pairs, without retrieved
passages; No Critic trains an LM trained with input-output pairs that are always augmented with the
top one retrieved document without reflection tokens. This is similar to SAIL (Luo et al., 2023), and
we use our instruction-output data instead of using the Alpaca dataset (Dubois et al., 2023), as in
SAIL. We also conduct ablation on our inference-time algorithm, including No retrieval disables
retrieval during inference; Hard constraints indicates the model performance that retrieves when
 Retrieve =Yes instead of using the adaptive threshold; Retrieve top 1 always retrieves and uses the
top one document only, similar to standard RAG approaches; Remove I S S UP indicates the model
performance that removes I S S UP score only during critique-guided beam search in Eq. 4. In this
ablation experiment, we use a training instance size of 50k for a more efficient exploration of training
variations. Later in this section, we conduct an analysis of the effect of training data size. We conduct
the ablation studies on three datasets, PopQA, PubHealth, and ASQA. On ASQA, we evaluate models
on sampled 150 instances and exclude ablations involving adaptive or no retrieval processes.
We show in Table 3a the ablation results. The top part of the table shows results for training ablations,
and the bottom part is for inference ablations. We see that all components play important roles. We
also observe a large performance gap between S ELF -R AG and No Retriever or Critic baselines across
tasks, indicating that training an LM with those models largely contributes to the performance gain of
S ELF -R AG. Using the top passages regardless of their relevance (Retrieve top 1) as in conventional
RAG approaches causes a large drop in PopQA and ASQA, and removing I S S UP during the beam
search results hurts performance on ASQA. This demonstrates the effectiveness of S ELF -R AG’s
capabilities of carefully selecting generations based fine-grained multiple criterion, instead of naively
using all of the top passages from the retrieval model or solely depending on relevance scores.
Effects of inference-time customization. One key benefit of our proposed framework is that it
enables us to control how much each critique type affects the final generation sampling. We analyze
the effects of different parameter weights on the top of our 7B model during inference time on
ASQA, where multiple evaluation aspects are considered. Figure 3b shows the effects of changing
the weighting term for I S S UP , which criticizes how supported the output is by the text passage. As
the figure shows, increasing the weight leads to positive effects on the models’ citation precision
since this puts more emphasis on whether model generation is supported by the evidence. On the


                                                               9
Preprint.




             55
             50                                    73                                                                            Pop    Bio.

Perfomance
             45
                                                                                  60
                                                   72                                                                S&P         92.5   70.0
             40
                                                                                                                      I S R EL   95.0   90.0
             35                                    71                             40
                                                        0             100              0             100              I S S UP   90.0   85.0
                  0      50        100       150
                       Num of training (k)                  Num of training (k)            Num of training (k)
                                                                                                                 (d) Human evaluation on PopQA
                      (a) PopQA                             (b) PubHealth              (c) ASQA (prec)           and Bio generation.

Figure 4: Training scale and Human analysis: (a) (b) (c) Training scale analysis shows the effect
of the training data scale on PopQA, PubHealth and ASQA (citation precision), respectively. (d)
Human analysis on S ELF -R AG outputs as well as reflection tokens.


contrary, a larger weight results in lower MAUVE scores: when generation gets longer and more
fluent, there are often more claims that are not fully supported by citations, consistent with findings
by Liu et al. (2023a). Our framework lets practitioners choose and customize models’ behaviors at
test time by adjusting such parameters without requiring additional training.
Efficiency and accuracy trade-off. Using our framework, practitioners can adjust how often retrieval
occurs using the token probability of reward tokens. We evaluate how this adaptive threshold affects
overall accuracy and frequency of retrieval, and we evaluate the performance with varying numbers
of threshold δ (larger δ results in less retrieval) on PubHealth and PopQA. Figure 3c shows that
the model’s retrieval frequencies dramatically change on both datasets. as δ varies. On one hand,
performance deterioration by retrieving less is smaller on PubHealth but larger in PopQA.
Effects of training data size. We conduct an analysis of how the data scale affects the model’s
performance. In particular, we randomly sample 5k, 10k, 20k, and 50k instances from our original
150k training instances, and fine-tune four S ELF -R AG 7 B variants on those subsets. Then, we compare
the model performance on PopQA, PubHealth, and ASQA (citation precision) with our final S ELF -
R AG trained on the full 150k instances. We also evaluate Figures 4a, 4b and 4c shows the models’
performance trained on different amount of data. Across all datasets, increasing data size often shows
upward trajectories and the improvements are significantly larger in PopQA and ASQA, while we do
not observed such significant improvements on Llama2-FT7 B when increasing the training data from
50k to 150k. These results also indicate that further expanding the training data of S ELF -R AG may
lead to further improvements, although in this work we limit our training data size to 150k.
Human evaluations. We conduct small human evaluations on S ELF -R AG outputs, as well as the
reliability of predicted reflection tokens. In particular, we sampled 50 samples from PopQA and Bio
results. Following Menick et al. (2022), human annotators evaluate S&P, which indicates whether
the model output is plausible (i.e., the output is a reasonable and on-topic response to the question
as if it were occurring in a conversation) and supported (i.e., the provided evidence is sufficient to
verify the validity of the answer). For S&P, we do not consider the instances where S ELF -R AG
predicts irrelevant or no support. We then ask our annotators whether the model-predicted
reflection tokens about I S R EL and I S S UP match their inspections (e.g., whether the fully supported
output is supported by the cited evidence). Human annotators find S ELF -R AG answers are often
plausible and supported by relevant passages with higher S&P scores on short-form PopQA, which is
consistent with Menick et al. (2022). Human annotators also find I S R EL and I S S UP reflection token
predictions are mostly aligned with their assessments. Appendix Table 6 shows several annotated
examples and explanations on assessments.


6                 C ONCLUSION

This work introduces S ELF -R AG, a new framework to enhance the quality and factuality of LLMs
through retrieval on demand and self-reflection. S ELF -R AG trains an LM to learn to retrieve, generate,
and critique text passages and its own generation by predicting the next tokens from its original
vocabulary as well as newly added special tokens, called reflection tokens. S ELF -R AG further enables
the tailoring of LM behaviors at test time by leveraging reflection tokens. Our holistic evaluations on
six tasks using multiple metrics demonstrate that S ELF -R AG significantly outperforms LLMs with
more parameters or with conventional retrieval-augmented generation approaches.


                                                                                       10
Preprint.




E THICAL C ONCERNS
This work aims to improve the factuality of LLM outputs, the lack of which continues to cause nu-
merous real-world problems (e.g., spread of misinformation and provision of incorrect and dangerous
advice). While our method shows significant improvements in terms of performance, factuality, and
citation accuracy, it can still generate outputs that are not fully supported by the citations. We hope
that explicit self-reflection and fine-grained attribution may help users verify factual errors in the
model outputs.

ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
We thank Sewon Min, Scott Wen-tau Yih, Sean Welleck, and Kawin Ethayarajh for fruitful discussions
in the early stages of this work. We thank Sewon Min, Joongwon (Daniel) Kim, and Sandy Kaplan
for valuable feedback on the paper, and Tianyu Gao and Weijia Shi for their help on evaluations.
Akari Asai is supported by the IBM Fellowship. We thank Stability AI for providing computing
to train and evaluate the LMs in this work, and Microsoft Accelerate Foundation Models Research
Program for the access to OpenAI APIs. This work was funded in part by the DARPA MCS program
through NIWC Pacific (N66001-19-2-4031), NSF IIS-2044660, and gifts from AI2.

R EFERENCES
Akari Asai, Kazuma Hashimoto, Hannaneh Hajishirzi, Richard Socher, and Caiming Xiong. Learn-
  ing to retrieve reasoning paths over wikipedia graph for question answering. In International
 Conference on Learning Representations, 2020. URL https://openreview.net/forum?
  id=SJgVHkrYDH.
Akari Asai, Sewon Min, Zexuan Zhong, and Danqi Chen. Retrieval-based language models and appli-
  cations. In Proceedings of the 61st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics
 (Tutorial), 2023a. URL https://aclanthology.org/2023.acl-tutorials.6.
Akari Asai, Timo Schick, Patrick Lewis, Xilun Chen, Gautier Izacard, Sebastian Riedel, Hannaneh
  Hajishirzi, and Wen-tau Yih. Task-aware retrieval with instructions. In Findings of the Associ-
  ation for Computational Linguistics, 2023b. URL https://aclanthology.org/2023.
  findings-acl.225.
Bernd Bohnet, Vinh Q Tran, Pat Verga, Roee Aharoni, Daniel Andor, Livio Baldini Soares, Jacob
  Eisenstein, Kuzman Ganchev, Jonathan Herzig, Kai Hui, et al. Attributed question answering:
  Evaluation and modeling for attributed large language models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2212.08037,
  2022. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2212.08037.
Lingjiao Chen, Matei Zaharia, and James Zou. How is chatgpt’s behavior changing over time? arXiv
  preprint arXiv:2307.09009, 2023. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.09009.
Peter Clark, Isaac Cowhey, Oren Etzioni, Tushar Khot, Ashish Sabharwal, Carissa Schoenick, and
  Oyvind Tafjord. Think you have solved question answering? try arc, the ai2 reasoning challenge.
  arXiv preprint arXiv:1803.05457, 2018. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/1803.05457.
Tri Dao, Dan Fu, Stefano Ermon, Atri Rudra, and Christopher Ré. Flashattention: Fast and memory-
  efficient exact attention with io-awareness. In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems,
  2022. URL https://openreview.net/forum?id=H4DqfPSibmx.
Shehzaad Dhuliawala, Mojtaba Komeili, Jing Xu, Roberta Raileanu, Xian Li, Asli Celikyilmaz, and
  Jason Weston. Chain-of-verification reduces hallucination in large language models. arXiv preprint
  arXiv:2309.11495, 2023. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.11495.
Emily Dinan, Stephen Roller, Kurt Shuster, Angela Fan, Michael Auli, and Jason Weston. Wizard of
 wikipedia: Knowledge-powered conversational agents. In International Conference on Learning
 Representations, 2019. URL https://openreview.net/forum?id=r1l73iRqKm.
Yann Dubois, Xuechen Li, Rohan Taori, Tianyi Zhang, Ishaan Gulrajani, Jimmy Ba, Carlos Guestrin,
  Percy Liang, and Tatsunori B. Hashimoto. Alpacafarm: A simulation framework for methods that


                                                 11
Preprint.




  learn from human feedback. arXiv preprint arXiv:2305.14387, 2023. URL https://arxiv.
  org/abs/2305.14387.
Tianyu Gao, Howard Yen, Jiatong Yu, and Danqi Chen. Enabling large language models to generate
  text with citations. arXiv preprint arXiv:2305.14627, 2023. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/
  2305.14627.
Kelvin Guu, Kenton Lee, Zora Tung, Panupong Pasupat, and Mingwei Chang. Retrieval augmented
  language model pre-training. In International Conference on Machine Learning, 2020. URL
  https://dl.acm.org/doi/pdf/10.5555/3524938.3525306.
Gautier Izacard, Mathilde Caron, Lucas Hosseini, Sebastian Riedel, Piotr Bojanowski, Armand
  Joulin, and Edouard Grave. Unsupervised dense information retrieval with contrastive learning.
 Transactions on Machine Learning Research, 2022a. URL https://openreview.net/
  forum?id=jKN1pXi7b0.
Gautier Izacard, Patrick Lewis, Maria Lomeli, Lucas Hosseini, Fabio Petroni, Timo Schick, Jane
  Dwivedi-Yu, Armand Joulin, Sebastian Riedel, and Edouard Grave. Few-shot learning with
  retrieval augmented language models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2208.03299, 2022b. URL https:
 //arxiv.org/abs/2208.03299.
Zhengbao Jiang, Frank F Xu, Luyu Gao, Zhiqing Sun, Qian Liu, Jane Dwivedi-Yu, Yiming Yang,
  Jamie Callan, and Graham Neubig. Active retrieval augmented generation. arXiv preprint
  arXiv:2305.06983, 2023. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.06983.
Mandar Joshi, Eunsol Choi, Daniel Weld, and Luke Zettlemoyer. TriviaQA: A large scale distantly
 supervised challenge dataset for reading comprehension. In Proceedings of the 55th Annual
 Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers), 2017. URL
 https://aclanthology.org/P17-1147.
Nitish Shirish Keskar, Bryan McCann, Lav R Varshney, Caiming Xiong, and Richard Socher.
  Ctrl: A conditional transformer language model for controllable generation. arXiv preprint
  arXiv:1909.05858, 2019. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/1909.05858.
Tomasz Korbak, Kejian Shi, Angelica Chen, Rasika Vinayak Bhalerao, Christopher Buckley, Jason
  Phang, Samuel R Bowman, and Ethan Perez. Pretraining language models with human preferences.
  In International Conference on Machine Learning, 2023. URL https://openreview.net/
  forum?id=AT8Iw8KOeC.
Tom Kwiatkowski, Jennimaria Palomaki, Olivia Redfield, Michael Collins, Ankur Parikh, Chris
  Alberti, Danielle Epstein, Illia Polosukhin, Jacob Devlin, Kenton Lee, Kristina Toutanova, Llion
  Jones, Matthew Kelcey, Ming-Wei Chang, Andrew M. Dai, Jakob Uszkoreit, Quoc Le, and
  Slav Petrov. Natural questions: A benchmark for question answering research. Transactions of
  the Association for Computational Linguistics, 2019. URL https://aclanthology.org/
  Q19-1026.
Woosuk Kwon, Zhuohan Li, Siyuan Zhuang, Ying Sheng, Lianmin Zheng, Cody Hao Yu, Joseph E.
 Gonzalez, Hao Zhang, and Ion Stoica. Efficient memory management for large language model
 serving with pagedattention. In Proceedings of the ACM SIGOPS 29th Symposium on Operating
 Systems Principles, 2023. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.06180.
Patrick Lewis, Ethan Perez, Aleksandra Piktus, Fabio Petroni, Vladimir Karpukhin, Naman Goyal,
  Heinrich Küttler, Mike Lewis, Wen-tau Yih, Tim Rocktäschel, Sebastian Riedel, and Douwe Kiela.
  Retrieval-augmented generation for knowledge-intensive nlp tasks. In Advances in Neural Infor-
  mation Processing Systems, 2020. URL https://proceedings.neurips.cc/paper/
  2020/file/6b493230205f780e1bc26945df7481e5-Paper.pdf.
Xi Victoria Lin, Xilun Chen, Mingda Chen, Weijia Shi, Maria Lomeli, Rich James, Pedro Rodriguez,
  Jacob Kahn, Gergely Szilvasy, Mike Lewis, Luke Zettlemoyer, and Scott Yih. Ra-dit: Retrieval-
  augmented dual instruction tuning, 2023. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.01352.
Nelson F Liu, Tianyi Zhang, and Percy Liang. Evaluating verifiability in generative search engines.
  arXiv preprint arXiv:2304.09848, 2023a. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2304.09848.


                                               12
Preprint.




Yang Liu, Dan Iter, Yichong Xu, Shuohang Wang, Ruochen Xu, and Chenguang Zhu. Gpteval: Nlg
  evaluation using gpt-4 with better human alignment. arXiv preprint arXiv:2303.16634, 2023b.
  URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2303.16634.
Ximing Lu, Sean Welleck, Jack Hessel, Liwei Jiang, Lianhui Qin, Peter West, Prithviraj Am-
  manabrolu, and Yejin Choi. QUARK: Controllable text generation with reinforced unlearning.
  In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, 2022. URL https://openreview.
  net/forum?id=5HaIds3ux5O.
Hongyin Luo, Yung-Sung Chuang, Yuan Gong, Tianhua Zhang, Yoon Kim, Xixin Wu, Danny Fox,
  Helen Meng, and James Glass. Sail: Search-augmented instruction learning. arXiv preprint
  arXiv:2305.15225, 2023. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.15225.
Aman Madaan, Niket Tandon, Prakhar Gupta, Skyler Hallinan, Luyu Gao, Sarah Wiegreffe, Uri
 Alon, Nouha Dziri, Shrimai Prabhumoye, Yiming Yang, Shashank Gupta, Bodhisattwa Prasad
 Majumder, Katherine Hermann, Sean Welleck, Amir Yazdanbakhsh, and Peter Clark. Self-
 refine: Iterative refinement with self-feedback. arXiv preprint arXiv:2303.17651, 2023. URL
 https://arxiv.org/abs/2303.17651.
Alex Mallen, Akari Asai, Victor Zhong, Rajarshi Das, Daniel Khashabi, and Hannaneh Hajishirzi.
  When not to trust language models: Investigating effectiveness of parametric and non-parametric
  memories. In Proceedings of the 61st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational
  Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers), 2023. URL https://aclanthology.org/2023.
  acl-long.546.
Jacob Menick, Maja Trebacz, Vladimir Mikulik, John Aslanides, Francis Song, Martin Chadwick,
  Mia Glaese, Susannah Young, Lucy Campbell-Gillingham, Geoffrey Irving, et al. Teaching
  language models to support answers with verified quotes. arXiv preprint arXiv:2203.11147, 2022.
  URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2203.11147.
Todor Mihaylov, Peter Clark, Tushar Khot, and Ashish Sabharwal. Can a suit of armor conduct
  electricity? a new dataset for open book question answering. In Proceedings of the 2018 Conference
  on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing, 2018. URL https://aclanthology.
  org/D18-1260.
Sewon Min, Danqi Chen, Hannaneh Hajishirzi, and Luke Zettlemoyer. A discrete hard EM approach
  for weakly supervised question answering. In Proceedings of the 2019 Conference on Empirical
  Methods in Natural Language Processing and the 9th International Joint Conference on Natu-
  ral Language Processing (EMNLP-IJCNLP), 2019. URL https://aclanthology.org/
  D19-1284.
Sewon Min, Kalpesh Krishna, Xinxi Lyu, Mike Lewis, Wen-tau Yih, Pang Wei Koh, Mohit Iyyer,
  Luke Zettlemoyer, and Hannaneh Hajishirzi. Factscore: Fine-grained atomic evaluation of factual
  precision in long form text generation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2305.14251, 2023. URL https:
  //arxiv.org/abs/2305.14251.
Reiichiro Nakano, Jacob Hilton, Suchir Balaji, Jeff Wu, Long Ouyang, Christina Kim, Christopher
  Hesse, Shantanu Jain, Vineet Kosaraju, William Saunders, et al. Webgpt: Browser-assisted
  question-answering with human feedback. arXiv preprint arXiv:2112.09332, 2021. URL https:
  //arxiv.org/abs/2112.09332.
Jianmo Ni, Chen Qu, Jing Lu, Zhuyun Dai, Gustavo Hernandez Abrego, Ji Ma, Vincent Zhao,
   Yi Luan, Keith Hall, Ming-Wei Chang, and Yinfei Yang. Large dual encoders are generalizable
   retrievers. In Proceedings of the 2022 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language
   Processing, 2022. URL https://aclanthology.org/2022.emnlp-main.669.
OpenAI. Gpt-4 technical report. arXiv preprint arXiv:2303.08774, 2023. URL https://arxiv.
  org/abs/2303.08774.
Long Ouyang, Jeffrey Wu, Xu Jiang, Diogo Almeida, Carroll Wainwright, Pamela Mishkin, Chong
  Zhang, Sandhini Agarwal, Katarina Slama, Alex Gray, John Schulman, Jacob Hilton, Fraser Kelton,
  Luke Miller, Maddie Simens, Amanda Askell, Peter Welinder, Paul Christiano, Jan Leike, and


                                                13
Preprint.




  Ryan Lowe. Training language models to follow instructions with human feedback. In Advances in
  Neural Information Processing Systems, 2022. URL https://openreview.net/forum?
  id=TG8KACxEON.

Debjit Paul, Mete Ismayilzada, Maxime Peyrard, Beatriz Borges, Antoine Bosselut, Robert West,
  and Boi Faltings. Refiner: Reasoning feedback on intermediate representations. arXiv preprint
  arXiv:2304.01904, 2023. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2304.01904.

Fabio Petroni, Aleksandra Piktus, Angela Fan, Patrick Lewis, Majid Yazdani, Nicola De Cao, James
  Thorne, Yacine Jernite, Vladimir Karpukhin, Jean Maillard, Vassilis Plachouras, Tim Rocktäschel,
  and Sebastian Riedel. KILT: a benchmark for knowledge intensive language tasks. In Proceedings
  of the 2021 Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational
  Linguistics: Human Language Technologies, 2021. URL https://aclanthology.org/
  2021.naacl-main.200.

Krishna Pillutla, Swabha Swayamdipta, Rowan Zellers, John Thickstun, Sean Welleck, Yejin Choi,
  and Zaid Harchaoui. MAUVE: Measuring the gap between neural text and human text using
  divergence frontiers. In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, 2021. URL https:
  //openreview.net/forum?id=Tqx7nJp7PR.

Samyam Rajbhandari, Jeff Rasley, Olatunji Ruwase, and Yuxiong He. Zero: Memory optimizations
  toward training trillion parameter models. In Proceedings of the International Conference for High
  Performance Computing, Networking, Storage and Analysis, 2020. URL https://dl.acm.
  org/doi/10.5555/3433701.3433727.

Ori Ram, Yoav Levine, Itay Dalmedigos, Dor Muhlgay, Amnon Shashua, Kevin Leyton-Brown, and
  Yoav Shoham. In-context retrieval-augmented language models. Transactions of the Association
  for Computational Linguistics, 2023. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2302.00083.

Victor Sanh, Albert Webson, Colin Raffel, Stephen Bach, Lintang Sutawika, Zaid Alyafeai, Antoine
  Chaffin, Arnaud Stiegler, Arun Raja, Manan Dey, M Saiful Bari, Canwen Xu, Urmish Thakker,
  Shanya Sharma Sharma, Eliza Szczechla, Taewoon Kim, Gunjan Chhablani, Nihal Nayak, De-
  bajyoti Datta, Jonathan Chang, Mike Tian-Jian Jiang, Han Wang, Matteo Manica, Sheng Shen,
  Zheng Xin Yong, Harshit Pandey, Rachel Bawden, Thomas Wang, Trishala Neeraj, Jos Rozen,
  Abheesht Sharma, Andrea Santilli, Thibault Fevry, Jason Alan Fries, Ryan Teehan, Teven Le Scao,
  Stella Biderman, Leo Gao, Thomas Wolf, and Alexander M Rush. Multitask prompted training
  enables zero-shot task generalization. In International Conference on Learning Representations,
  2022. URL https://openreview.net/forum?id=9Vrb9D0WI4.

Timo Schick, Jane Dwivedi-Yu, Roberto Dessı̀, Roberta Raileanu, Maria Lomeli, Luke Zettlemoyer,
  Nicola Cancedda, and Thomas Scialom. Toolformer: Language models can teach themselves to
  use tools. arXiv preprint arXiv:2302.04761, 2023. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2302.
  04761.

John Schulman, Filip Wolski, Prafulla Dhariwal, Alec Radford, and Oleg Klimov. Proximal policy
  optimization algorithms. arXiv preprint arXiv:1707.06347, 2017. URL https://arxiv.org/
  abs/1707.06347.

Freda Shi, Xinyun Chen, Kanishka Misra, Nathan Scales, David Dohan, Ed H. Chi, Nathanael
  Schärli, and Denny Zhou. Large language models can be easily distracted by irrelevant context.
  In Proceedings of the 40th International Conference on Machine Learning, 2023. URL https:
  //proceedings.mlr.press/v202/shi23a.html.

Ivan Stelmakh, Yi Luan, Bhuwan Dhingra, and Ming-Wei Chang. ASQA: Factoid questions meet long-
  form answers. In Proceedings of the 2022 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language
  Processing, 2022. URL https://aclanthology.org/2022.emnlp-main.566.

James Thorne, Andreas Vlachos, Christos Christodoulopoulos, and Arpit Mittal. FEVER: a large-
  scale dataset for fact extraction and VERification. In Proceedings of the 2018 Conference of the
  North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics: Human Language Tech-
  nologies, Volume 1 (Long Papers), 2018. URL https://aclanthology.org/N18-1074.


                                                14
Preprint.




Hugo Touvron, Louis Martin, Kevin Stone, Peter Albert, Amjad Almahairi, Yasmine Babaei, Nikolay
  Bashlykov, Soumya Batra, Prajjwal Bhargava, Shruti Bhosale, et al. Llama 2: Open foundation
  and fine-tuned chat models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2307.09288, 2023. URL https://arxiv.
  org/abs/2307.09288.
Yizhong Wang, Hamish Ivison, Pradeep Dasigi, Jack Hessel, Tushar Khot, Khyathi Raghavi Chandu,
  David Wadden, Kelsey MacMillan, Noah A Smith, Iz Beltagy, et al. How far can camels go?
  exploring the state of instruction tuning on open resources. arXiv preprint arXiv:2306.04751, 2023.
  URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.04751.
Jason Wei, Maarten Bosma, Vincent Zhao, Kelvin Guu, Adams Wei Yu, Brian Lester, Nan Du,
  Andrew M. Dai, and Quoc V Le. Finetuned language models are zero-shot learners. In International
  Conference on Learning Representations, 2022. URL https://openreview.net/forum?
  id=gEZrGCozdqR.
Zeqiu Wu, Yushi Hu, Weijia Shi, Nouha Dziri, Alane Suhr, Prithviraj Ammanabrolu, Noah A
  Smith, Mari Ostendorf, and Hannaneh Hajishirzi. Fine-grained human feedback gives better
  rewards for language model training. arXiv preprint arXiv:2306.01693, 2023. URL https:
  //arxiv.org/abs/2306.01693.
Yuxi Xie, Kenji Kawaguchi, Yiran Zhao, Xu Zhao, Min-Yen Kan, Junxian He, and Qizhe Xie. Decom-
  position enhances reasoning via self-evaluation guided decoding. arXiv preprint arXiv:2305.00633,
  2023. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.00633.
Fangyuan Xu, Weijia Shi, and Eunsol Choi. Recomp: Improving retrieval-augmented lms with
  compression and selective augmentation, 2023. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.
  04408.
Ori Yoran, Tomer Wolfson, Ori Ram, and Jonathan Berant. Making retrieval-augmented language
  models robust to irrelevant context, 2023. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.01558.
Xiang Yue, Boshi Wang, Kai Zhang, Ziru Chen, Yu Su, and Huan Sun. Automatic evaluation of
  attribution by large language models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2305.06311, 2023. URL https:
  //arxiv.org/abs/2305.06311.
Tianhua Zhang, Hongyin Luo, Yung-Sung Chuang, Wei Fang, Luc Gaitskell, Thomas Hartvigsen,
  Xixin Wu, Danny Fox, Helen Meng, and James Glass. Interpretable unified language checking.
  arXiv preprint arXiv:2304.03728, 2023. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2304.03728.
Andy Zhou, Kai Yan, Michal Shlapentokh-Rothman, Haohan Wang, and Yu-Xiong Wang. Language
  agent tree search unifies reasoning acting and planning in language models, 2023. URL https:
 //arxiv.org/abs/2310.04406.
Daniel M Ziegler, Nisan Stiennon, Jeffrey Wu, Tom B Brown, Alec Radford, Dario Amodei, Paul
  Christiano, and Geoffrey Irving. Fine-tuning language models from human preferences. arXiv
  preprint arXiv:1909.08593, 2019. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/1909.08593.




                                                15
Preprint.




A PPENDIX

A S ELF -R AG Details                                                                             17
   A.1 Reflection Tokens. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     17
   A.2 S ELF -R AG Training . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   17
   A.3 S ELF -R AG Inference . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    19

B Experimental Details                                                                            19
   B.1 More Details of Training . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     19
   B.2 More Details of Evaluations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      20

C Results                                                                                         20
   C.1 Analysis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   20
   C.2 Human Evaluation Examples . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        21
   C.3 Qualitative Examples . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     21

D Full List of Instructions and Demonstrations for GPT-4                                          21




                                                16
Preprint.




A     S ELF -R AG D ETAILS

A.1   R EFLECTION T OKENS .

Definitions of reflection tokens. Below, we provide a detailed definition of reflection type and
output tokens. The first three aspects will be provided at each segment level, while the final aspect is
only given at each output level.

• Retrieval-on-demand ( Retrieve ): Given an input and previous-step generation (if applicable),
  an LM determines whether the continuation requires factual grounding. No indicates retrieval
  is unnecessary as the sequence does not require factual grounding or may not be enhanced by
  knowledge retrieval, Yes indicates retrieval is necessary. We additionally have continue
  to use evidence, which indicates that a model can continue to use the evidence retrieved
  previously. For instance, a passage may contain rich factual information, and thus S ELF -R AG
  generates multiple segments based on the passage.
• Relevant ( I S R EL ): Retrieved knowledge may not be always relevant to the input. This aspect
  indicates whether the evidence provides useful information (Relevant) or not (Irrelevant).
• Supported ( I S S UP ): Attribution is the concept of whether the output is fully supported by
  certain evidence (Menick et al., 2022; Bohnet et al., 2022). This aspect judges how much infor-
  mation in the output is entailed by the evidence. We evaluate attributions in three scale, Fully
  supported, Partially supported, and No support / Contradictory, follow-
  ing Yue et al. (2023); Nakano et al. (2021).
• Useful ( I S U SE ): Following the definitions from Liu et al. (2023a), we define the perceived utility
  as whether the response is a helpful and informative answer to the query, independently from
  whether it is in fact factual or not. This can be also viewed as plausibility in Menick et al. (2022).
  For usefulness, we use a five-scale evaluation (1 is the lowest and 5 is the highest).

Details of GPT-4-based data collections. We use the instruction and demonstration pairs to prompt
GPT-4, listed in Section D. Following an official recommendation, we separate instructions and
outputs with “##”. We use the temperature 1 and set the maximum output token counts to be 200. We
discard instances where GPT-4 does not follow the designated output formats or output sequences
that do not match our expected category names. As a result, we collected 1,2594 for Retrieve , 11,181
for I S S UP , 19,317 for relevance, 3,831 for utility.

Manual analysis of the GPT-4 predictions. The authors of this paper manually assess randomly
sampled 20 instances for each aspect and check if GPT-4 predictions match their assessments given
the same instruction, demonstrations, and test instances. We found our assessments show high
agreement with GPT-4 predictions, especially for relevance (95%), retrieval necessity (95%), and
the degree of support (90%). Agreement was slightly lower in usefulness (80%), mostly due to the
disagreement between 1 and 2 or 4 and 5.

A.2   S ELF -R AG T RAINING

Overview of training. Algorithm 2 provides a high-level overview of our training.

Full list of seed datasets. To sample diverse input-output pairs, we sample instances of the Open-
Instruct (Wang et al., 2023) dataset. In particular, we use their ShareGPT, GPT-4 Alpaca, Alpaca,
OpenAssistant, and FLAN subsets subsets. We also sample instances from a couple of knowledge-
intensive datasets, Natural Questions (Kwiatkowski et al., 2019), Wizard of Wikipedia (Dinan et al.,
2019) and FEVER (Thorne et al., 2018) from the KILT benchmark (Petroni et al., 2021), ASQA (Stel-
makh et al., 2022) and multiple QA datasets including ARC-Easy and OpenBookQA (Mihaylov et al.,
2018). Table 3 shows the full list of training instances, and in total, we use 145,619 instances.

Performance of the Critic C. We evaluate the accuracy of reward predictions by splitting GPT-4
generated feedback into training, development, and test sets. The accuracy of the reward model is
as follows. Table 5 shows the model performance of predicting GPT-4 judgments. As you can see,
overall our fine-tuned reward model shows high prediction matching with GPT-4 predicted feedback.


                                                  17
Preprint.




Algorithm 2 S ELF -R AG Training
 1: Input input-output data D = {X, Y }, generator M, C θ
 2: Initialize C with a pre-trained LM
 3: Sample data {X sample , Y sample } ∼ {X, Y }             ▷ Training Critic LM (Section 3.2.1)
 4: for (x, y) ∈ (X sample , Y sample ) do                                   ▷ Data collections for C
 5:     Prompt GPT-4 to collect a reflection token r for (x, y)
 6:     Add {(x, y, r)} to Dcritic
 7: Update C with next token prediction loss                                 ▷ Critic learning; Eq. 1
 8: Initialize M with a pre-trained LM                  ▷ Training Generator LM (Section 3.2.2)
 9: for (x, y) ∈ (X, Y ) do                                    ▷ Data collection for M with Dcritic
10:     Run C to predict r given (x, y)
11:     Add (x, y, r) to Dgen
12: Update M on Dgen with next token prediction loss                           ▷ Generator LM learning; Eq. 2


            Dataset name                 category              Data source      the number of instances
            GPT-4 Alpaca           Instruction-following     Open-Instruct                26,168
            Stanford Alpaca        Instruction-following     Open-Instruct                25,153
            FLAN-V2                Instruction-following     Open-Instruct                17,817
            ShareGPT               Instruction-following     Open-Instruct                13,406
            Open Assistant 1       Instruction-following     Open-Instruct                 9,464
            Wizard of Wikipedia    Knowledge-intensive          KILT                      17,367
            Natural Questions      Knowledge-intensive          KILT                      15,535
            FEVER                  Knowledge-intensive          KILT                      9,966
            OpenBoookQA            Knowledge-intensive        HF Dataset                  4,699
            Arc-Easy               Knowledge-intensive        HF Dataset                  2,147
            ASQA                   Knowledge-intensive         ASQA                       3,897

                           Table 3: The generator LM M training data statistics.

                             base LM        Retrieve    I S S UP    I S R EL   I S U SE

                             Llama2-7B       93.8       93.5        80.2        73.5
                             FLAN-3B         85.6       73.1        82.0        72.1

       Figure 5: Reward prediction accuracy using GPT-4 predictions as ground-truth predictions.


While our final model uses Llama2-7B as a base LM, we also train and compare FLAN-3B (Wei
et al., 2022) model on the same data, to investigate the effectiveness of different data sizes affect final
reward predictions. In most aspects, our reward model shows higher than 80% accuracy, indicating
the powerful ability of fine-tuned specialized LMs to evaluate text. While both models show relatively
lower performance on I S U SE , this is because both models often confuse between the two highest
cases (5 and 4), where human annotators can also disagree.

Details of M data creation. Here, we provide detailed data creation procedures. Algorithm 3
summarizes the process. Here we set yt to y for simplification. Once we train the critic model, we
first run it on input data from the aforementioned datasets, to predict whether retrieval is needed or
not. For the instances where the critic predicts Retrieve =No, we only predict the I S U SE given input
and output. For the instances where the critic predicts Retrieve =Yes, we first retrieve passages using
the input and the entire output as queries, to find passages that are relevant to the entire output. We
then split output sentences using Spacy.7 For each sentence, we run C to predict whether the retrieval
is necessary or not, given the input, preceding segments, and the initial retrieved passage. If C predicts
 Retrieve =No, then do not insert any paragraph at the tth segment. If C predicts Retrieve =Yes, then
we use the original input and the tth segment as a retrieval query to find relevant passages for the
t-th segment. For each retrieved passage, we predict I S R EL and I S S UP . If there is any passage and
continuation with I S R EL =Relevant and I S S UP =Fully Supported / I S S UP =Partially
   7
       https://spacy.io/


                                                       18
Preprint.




Supported, then we sample it as the continuation. If there is more than one passage satisfying this
criterion, we use the one with the highest retrieval score. If there are only I S R EL =Irrelevant or
 I S S UP =No Support passages, we randomly sample one passage.


Algorithm 3 Mgen Data creation
 1: Input Input-output data D = X, Y
 2: for (x, y) ∈ {X, Y } do
 3:     Given (x, y) C predicts Retrieve
 4:     if Retrieve is predicted then
 5:         Retrieve relevant passages D using R given (x, y)                      ▷ Retrieve passages
 6:         for d ∈ D do
 7:              C predicts I S R EL for each d                       ▷ Predict relevance of passages
 8:              C predicts I S S UP for each (y, d)                     ▷ Predict supports of outputs
 9:         C predicts I S U SE for each d                       ▷ Predict overall utility (t = T only)
10:         Sample d
11:     else if Retrieve is not predicted then
12:         C predicts I S U SE given x, y
        Add augmented (x, y, d, r) to Dgen


Training examples. Table 4 show several training examples used for M training.

A.3   S ELF -R AG I NFERENCE

Details of beam-search score calculations. We first compute scores for each critique type by
taking the normalized probabilities of desirable tokens. For I S R EL , we compute the score as follows:
                                                      p( I S R EL = R ELEVANT)
                  s( I S R EL ) =                                                                   .
                                  p( I S R EL = R ELEVANT) + p( I S R EL = I RRELEVANT)
For I S S UP , we compute the score as follows:
                                  p( I S S UP = F ULLY)                    p( I S S UP = PARTIALLY)
                  s( I S R EL ) =                             + 0.5 ×                               ,
             P                                 S                                         S
where S = t∈{F ULLY,PARTIALLY,N O} p( I S S UP = t). For I S U SE where we have a five-scale score, we
compute the weighted sum of the scores. We assigns weighted scores of w = {−1, −0.5, 0, 0.5, 1}
to the tokens I S U SE ={1, 2, 3, 4, 5}, and compute the final scores as follows:
                                                         5
                                                        X         p( I S U SE = i)
                                        s( I S U SE ) =        wi                     ,
                                                          i
                                                                           S
             P
where S = t∈{1,2,3,4,5} p( I S U SE = t).

Details of adaptive retrieval. For retrieval based on soft constraints, we trigger retrieval if the
following condition is satisfied:
                                         p( Retrieve = Y ES)
                                                                       > δ.
                            p( Retrieve = Y ES) + p(p( Retrieve = N O)

B     E XPERIMENTAL D ETAILS
B.1   M ORE D ETAILS OF T RAINING

More details of training and computations. We use 4 Nvidia A100 with 80GB memory to train
our models. All models are trained for 3 epochs with a batch size of 128, a peak learning rate of 2e-5
with 3% warmup steps, and linear decay afterward. We set the maximum token length to be 2,048
for the 7B model, and 1,524 for the 13B model due to the memory constraint. We use Deepspeed
stage 3 (Rajbhandari et al., 2020) to conduct multi-GPU distributed training, with training precision
Bfloat16 enabled. FlashAttention (Dao et al., 2022) is used to make the long-context training more
efficient. We run inference of our trained models using 1-2 Quadro RTX 6000 GPUs with 24GB
memory.


                                                  19
Preprint.




B.2      M ORE D ETAILS OF E VALUATIONS

Retrieval setup details. By default, we use Contriever-MS MARCO to retrieve the top five
documents from Wikipedia, and use official Wikipedia embeddings based on 2018 English Wikipedia.
On PopQA, where question and answer pairs are created based on WikiData in 2022, we found
that the 2018 Wikipedia sometimes lacks articles about some entities that have been more recently
added to Wikipedia. Therefore, for PopQA, we used the December 2020 preprocessed Wikipedia
corpus provided by Izacard et al. (2022b) and generated document embeddings.8 The issues of
performance variance from different Wikipedia dumps have been reported by prior work (Asai et al.,
2020; Izacard et al., 2022b). Yet, we observe limited effectiveness of such off-the-shelf retrieval
models trained primarily on knowledge-intensive tasks for open-ended generation (e.g., instruction
following). Recent or concurrent work studies instruction-tuning of retrieval systems (Asai et al.,
2023b) or joint training of retrieval and LM components (Lin et al., 2023), while we leave exploring
the effectivess of such appraoches for future work. For bio generation and open-domain QA tasks,
we additionally retrieve five documents using Google Programmable Search9 and search documents
from English Wikipedia. As this API only provides snippets, we retrieve Wikipedia introductory
paragraphs for the corresponding entities.

Detailed experimental settings for individual datasets. For OpenQA datasets, we set the max-
imum new token number to 100 tokens. For closed-set tasks (PubHealth and ARC-C), we set the
maximum new token length to 50 for all baselines. For S ELF -R AG inference on PubHealth and
ARC-C, instead of determining the output with the highest score 4 as in other tasks, we aggregate the
scores for each option and select the answer option with the highest score. We found in zero-shot
settings of fact checking, some LLMs can generate capitalized class labels (e.g., True) while our
gold labels are lower-cased. Therefore, across different LMs, for fact checking, we lowercase the
predictions. In multiple choice tasks, we found some models generate answers in slightly different
ways (e.g., (A) instead of A). We slightly modify instructions for each LLM to avoid such format
violations, and further conduct string matching between each candidate and model predictions if
format violations still remain. After that processing, in closed set tasks, model predictions match
one of the gold classes in almost all cases. For ALCE, we found that Llama2-chat tend to generate
significantly lower outputs than other models (e.g., on average, their output is nearly 100 token, while
ChatGPT generates 40 tokens on average), resulting in inflated str-em scores. We limit the maximum
generation length to 100 tokens for all baselines to avoid this issue, rather than the original 300
tokens in the ALCE paper. Consequently, all of the baseline output length is within 30-60 tokens.
For FactScore, we set the maximum new token length to 500 for baselines and 200 for S ELF -R AG at
each segment level.

Task-specific instructions. Table 5 shows the list of the instructions used during evaluations. For
Open-domain QA, we do not provide explicit instructions.

C       R ESULTS
C.1      A NALYSIS

Reliance on parametric- and non-parametric memories. We conduct analysis on how frequently
model answers come from retrieved passages (non-parametric memories) or their own parametric
memories. On two open-domain QA datasets, TriviaQA and PopQA, we conduct the following
analysis: 1) sample query models successfully answer correctly, 2) for each query in this group,
check whether the matched ground-truth answer is a sub-string of the retrieved passage or not. We
evaluate S ELF -R AG 7B, Alpaca 7B, Alpaca 13B, and Llama2-Chat-13B. We found that S ELF -R AG
significantly less frequently generates answers that are not included in the provided evidence; in
particular, in Alpaca 30B, 20% of the correct predictions are not included in the provided passages,
followed by Llama2-chat 13B (18%) and Alpaca (15%), while it is only 2% in S ELF -R AG. When
retrieved passages are not relevant, S ELF -R AG generates I S R EL =Irrelevant, indicating that the
following answers may not be factually grounded, while those instruction-tuned models continue to
generate plausible answers.
    8
        https://github.com/facebookresearch/atlas
    9
        https://programmablesearchengine.google.com/about/


                                                  20
Preprint.




C.2   H UMAN E VALUATION E XAMPLES

Table 6 shows examples with human evaluations on S&P and correctness of            I S R EL   and   I S S UP
reflection tokens.

C.3   Q UALITATIVE E XAMPLES

Table 7 shows several examples predicted by our S ELF -R AG (13B). The first example is the model
output to an ASQA question. The first reference states that Emperor Constantine made Sunday a
day of rest from labor, and further the second citation supports the fact that the official adoption
of Sunday as a day of rest by Constantine in AD 321. In the second example, the model predicts
Contradictory to the first output as the output says the person has served as the CEO since 2010,
while the passage says he stepped down as CEO in 2015. Indicating those factual contradictions
as reflection tokens enables to enforcement of hard control and also verification of model outputs
easily. In the third example, while the generation is mostly correct, S ELF -R AG predicts Partially
Support to the statement listing the name of the songs, as they were not explicitly mentioned.

D     F ULL L IST OF I NSTRUCTIONS AND D EMONSTRATIONS FOR GPT-4
Here, we show the instructions and demonstrations used to prompt GPT-4 to collect reflection tokens.
Table 8 shows the instructions and demonstrations for the initial retrieval token. Table 9 shows
the instruction and demonstrations used to collect the three-way output tokens for Retrieve given
instruction, preceding sentences, and previously retrieved passages. Due to the longer demonstration
and test input, we only use a single demonstration. Table 10 shows an instruction and demonstrations
used to collect the three-way output tokens for I S R EL . Table 11 shows an instruction and demon-
strations used to collect the three-way output tokens for I S R EL . Table 12 shows an instruction and
demonstrations used to collect the five-way output tokens for I S U SE .




                                                 21
Preprint.




Input Identify the two types of computer memory. (from gpt4 alpaca)
Output [ Retrieve =Yes]<p>Computer memory Computer memory – In computing, memory refers to the
computer hardware integrated circuits that store information for immediate use in a computer; it is synonymous
with the term “primary storage”. Computer memory operates at a high speed, for example random-access memory
(RAM), as a distinction from storage that provides slow-to-access information but offers higher capacities. If
needed, contents of the computer memory can be transferred to secondary storage; a very common way of doing
this is through a memory management technique called “virtual memory”. An archaic synonym for memory is
store. The term “memory”, meaning “primary storage” or “main memory”, is<p>[ I S R EL =Relevant]Primary
memory, also known as main memory, is the memory that the computer can directly access and manipulate.
[ I S S UP =Fully Supported] [ Retrieve =Yes]<p>Computer memory–often associated with addressable
semiconductor memory, i.e. integrated circuits consisting of silicon-based transistors, used for example as
primary storage but also other purposes in computers and other digital electronic devices. There are two main
kinds of semiconductor memory, volatile and non-volatile. Examples of non-volatile memory are flash memory
(used as secondary memory) and ROM, PROM, EPROM and EEPROM memory (used for storing firmware
such as BIOS). Examples of volatile memory are primary storage, which is typically dynamic random-access
memory (DRAM), and fast CPU cache memory, which is typically static random-access memory (SRAM)
that is fast but energy-consuming, offering lower memory<p>[ I S R EL =Relevant]Primary memory can be
accessed quickly, but it is volatile, meaning that the data is lost if the power is turned off.[ I S S UP =Partially
Supported]...[ I S U SE :5]
Input Give an example of a situation where you have to delegate tasks (from gpt4 alpaca)
Output [ Retrieve =No]The manager realizes that there is an extensive list of tasks that need to be completed in
order to make the event a success.[ Retrieve =Yes]<p>Delegation–Delegation is the assignment of any responsi-
bility or authority to another person (normally from a manager to a subordinate) to carry out specific activities. It
is one of the core concepts of management leadership. However, the person who delegated the work remains
accountable for the outcome of the delegated work. Delegation empowers a subordinate to make decisions, i.e. it
is a shifting of decision-making authority from one organizational level to a lower one. Delegation, if properly
done, is not fabrication. The opposite of effective delegation is micromanagement, where a manager provides too
much input,<p>[ I S R EL =Relevant]This includes tasks such as creating a guest list, designing and sending in-
vitations, booking a venue, coordinating with vendors, planning the eventś program, and monitoring the budget.[
 I S S UP =Partially Supported][ Retrieve =No]Since it is not possible for the manager to handle everything
alone, they must delegate tasks to their team members.[ Retrieve =No]The manager would then assign each
team member specific responsibilities based on their individual skillsets and strengths.[ Retrieve =Yes]<p>Joint
application design – Subject Matter Experts: These are the business users, the IS professionals, and the outside
experts that will be needed for a successful workshop. This group is the backbone of the meeting<p>[ I S R EL
=Irrelevant]For instance, the teamś graphic designer might be tasked with designing the invitations, while
the event coordinator would be in charge of planning the program and working with vendors...[ Retrieve =No]By
delegating tasks, the manager can ensure that all necessary tasks are completed in a timely manner, while also
empowering their team members to take on responsibilities and contribute to the success of the event.[ I S U SE
=5]
Input Synthesize a poem based on this prompt:“The sun is setting” (from stanford alpaca)
Output [ Retrieve =No]The stars begin to twinkle bright the trees, scattered throughout the night;
[ Retrieve =No]The stars begin to twinkle bright the trees, scattered throughout the night [ Retrieve =No] They
flicker like a silent dance, A peaceful moment in its trance. [ Retrieve =No] They flicker like a silent dance, A
peaceful moment in its trance. [ Retrieve =No] A chorus of crickets sing a lullaby, To every creature that roams
the sky [ I S U SE =5]
Input when did walking dead season 7 come out (from nq)
Output [ Retrieve =Yes]<p>The Walking Dead (season 7)–The Walking Dead (season 7) The seventh season of
“The Walking Dead”, an American post-apocalyptic horror television series on AMC, premiered on October 23,
2016, and concluded on April 2, 2017, consisting of 16 episodes. Developed for television by Frank Darabont,
the series is based on the eponymous series of comic books by Robert Kirkman, Tony Moore, and Charlie Adlard.
...<p>[ I S R EL =Relevant]October 23 , 2016[ I S S UP =Fully Supported][ I S U SE =5]
Input Given a chat history separated by new lines, generates an informative, knowledgeable and engaging
response: Hello, I love German shepherd dogs and you? – My favorite dog, they are officially known as German
Shepherd Dogs? – Yes, I have a German shepherd in my house and she is pregnant (from wow)
Output hey also are easily trained, obedient, and intelligent.[ Retrieve =Yes]<p>German Shepherd – a simple
difference of opinion, it is the fundamental issue of the breedś essential conformation and movement. ... They
are known for being easy to train and good for performing tasks and following instructions. They are especially
well known for their police work, being used for tracking criminals, patrolling troubled areas and detecting and
holding suspects. <p>[ I S R EL =Relevant]Because of this, they are often used for disability assistance and
for police work. [ I S S UP =Partially Supported][ I S U SE =2]

                                   Table 4: List of the training examples.
                                                        22
Preprint.




Dataset           Instruction
ARC-C           Given four answer candidates, A, B, C and D, choose the best answer choice. Please answer
                with the capitalized alphabet only, without adding any extra phrase or period.
PubHealth       Is the following statement correct or not? Say true if it’s correct; otherwise, say false. Don’t
                capitalize or add periods, just say “true” or “false”.
Bio Generation Tell me a bio about [Person Name]
ASQA (baseline) Instruction: Write an accurate, engaging, and concise answer for the given question using only
                the provided search results (some of which might be irrelevant) and cite them properly. Use
                an unbiased and journalistic tone. Always cite for any factual claim. When citing several
                search results, use [1][2][3]. Cite at least one document and at most three documents in each
                sentence. If multiple documents support the sentence, only cite a minimum sufficient subset of
                the documents.
ASQA (ours)     Answer the following question. The question may be ambiguous and have multiple correct
                answers, and in that case, you have to provide a long-form answer including all correct answers.

Table 5: Full list of instructions used during zero-shot evaluations. For open-domain QA, we don’t
use any task specific instruction and simply use the original questions as input query.




                                                    23
Preprint.




Input What genre is A Question and Answer Guide to Astronomy? (PopQA)
Output [ Retrieve =Yes] <p>Reference [1]<p>[ I S R EL =Relevant] A Question and Answer Guide to As-
tronomy is a non-fiction book that falls under the genre of Astronomy and Cosmology. [ I S S UP =Fully
Supported][ I S U SE =5]
Reference [1] A Question and Answer Guide to Astronomy is a book about astronomy and cosmology, and is
intended for a general audience. The book was written by Pierre-Yves Bely, Carol Christian, and Jean-Rene
Roy, and published in English by Cambridge University Press in 2010. It was originally written in French. The
content within the book is written using a question and answer format. It contains some 250 questions, which
The Science Teacher states each are answered with a concise and well-formulated essay that is informative and
readable. The Science Teacher review goes on to state that many of the answers given in the book are little gems
of science writing. The Science Teacher summarizes by stating that each question is likely to be thought of by a
student, and that the answers are informative, well constructed, and thorough. The book covers information about
the planets, the Earth, the Universe, practical astronomy, history, and awkward questions such as astronomy in
the Bible, UFOs, and aliens. Also covered are subjects such as the Big Bang, comprehension of large numbers,
and the Moon illusion.
S&P Supported and Plausible.
Correctness of I S R EL and I S S UP : Both I S R EL and I S S UP are correct, as the Reference [1] provides
detailed information of the book including the genre, and the model output is fully supported by the reference.
Input Who is the author of The Lie? (PopQA)
Output [ Retrieve =Yes] <p>Reference [1]<p>[ I S R EL =Relevant] The author of The Lie is Sam Harris.[
  I S S UP =Fully Supported][ I S U SE =5]
Reference [1] Lying is a 2011 long-form essay book by American author and neuroscience expert Sam Harris.
Harris argues that we can radically simplify our lives and improve society by merely telling the truth in situations
where others often lie.
S&P Plausible but not supported.
Correctness of I S R EL and I S S UP Both I S R EL and I S S UP are incorrect, as the Reference [1] is about a
different book whose title is similar to The Lie.
Input Tell me a bio about Ronaldinho (Bio)
Output [ Retrieve =Yes] <p>Reference [1]<p>[ I S R EL =Relevant] Ronaldinho is a retired professional
footballer from Brazil.[ I S S UP =Fully Supported][ Retrieve =Continue]He played as an attacking
midfielder and was known for his technical skills, creativity, dribbling ability, and accuracy from free
kicks[ Retrieve =Continue]He won two FIFA World Player of the Year awards and a Ballon d’Or.[ I S U SE =5]
Reference [1] Ronaldo de Assis Moreira (born 21 March 1980), commonly known as Ronaldinho Gaúcho or
simply Ronaldinho, is a Brazilian retired professional footballer who played mostly as an attacking midfielder,
but was also deployed as a winger. Considered one of the best players of his generation and regarded by many as
one of the greatest of all time, Ronaldinho won two FIFA World Player of the Year awards and a Ballon d’Or. A
global icon of the sport, he was renowned for his technical skills, creativity, dribbling ability and accuracy from
free-kicks, as well as his use of tricks, feints, no-look passes and overhead...
S&P Plausible and fully supported.
Correctness of I S R EL and I S S UP Both I S R EL and I S S UP are correct.
Input Tell me a bio about Sergei Bodrov (Bio)
Output [ Retrieve =Yes] <p>Reference [1]<p>[ I S R EL =Relevant] Sergei Vladimirovich Bodrov
(born June 28, 1948) is a Russian film director, screenwriter, and producer.[ I S S UP =Fully
Supported][ Retrieve =Continue]He was born in Moscow, Russia.[ Retrieve =Continue]He is the presi-
dent of the Russian Guild of Film Producers.[ I S U SE =5]
Reference [1] Sergei Vladimirovich Bodrov (born June 28, 1948) is a Russian film director, screenwriter, and
producer. In 2003 he was the President of the Jury at the 25th Moscow International Film Festival.
S&P Plausible but only partially supported. The the Reference [1] does not explicitly mention the person is born
in Moscow and there is no description about the Russian Guild of Film Producers.
Correctness of I S R EL and I S S UP I S R EL and I S S UP are correct as the reference document is highly relevant
and the first sentence is fully supported.

                             Table 6: Examples of human evaluation results.




                                                       24
Preprint.




Input When did sunday became the seventh day of the week (asqa)
Output [ Retrieve =Yes] <p>Reference [1]<p>[ I S R EL =Relevant] In 321 AD, the Roman Emperor Con-
stantine the Great made Sunday a day of rest from labor, stating: “On the venerable Day of the Sun let the
magistrates and people residing in cities rest, and let all workshops be closed”.[ I S S UP =Fully Supported]
[ Retrieve =Yes] <p>Reference [2]<p>[ I S R EL =Relevant] The official adoption of Sunday as a day of
rest by Constantine the Great in AD 321 made Sunday the seventh day of the week.[2][ I S S UP =Fully
Supported][ I S U SE =5]
Reference [1] Emperor Constantine then enacted the first Sunday Laws, for “the venerable Day of the Sun”
in 321 A.D. On March 7, 321, the Roman emperor Constantine issued a decree making Sunday a day of rest
from labor, stating: We find a good description of this in sources such as the book Rest Days which states:
Early Christian observance of both the spiritual seventh-day sabbath and a Lordś Day assembly is evidenced in
Ignatiusś letter to the Magnesians ca. 110.
Reference [2] Despite the official adoption of Sunday as a day of rest by Constantine, the seven-day week and
the nundial cycle continued to be used side-by-side until at least the Calendar of 354 and probably later. ... The
fact that the canon had to be issued at all is an indication that adoption of Constantine’s decree of 321 was still
not universal ...
Input Tell me a bio about Rory Tapner. (bio generation)
Output <p>Reference [1]<p>[ I S R EL =Relevant] Rory Tapner is a British businessman who has served as
the Chief Executive Officer of Coutts, a private banking and wealth management company, since 2010.[ I S S UP
=Contradictory], Reference [2]<p>[ I S R EL =Relevant] Rory Tapner was born on 30 September 1959
in London, England.[ I S S UP =Fully Supported]
Reference [1] Rory Tapner Rory Tapner is a UK businessman who, in September 2010 was appointed CEO of
Coutts, the Wealth Management division of Royal Bank of Scotland Group. In February 2015 he stepped down
as CEO when he was replaced in the role by Alison Rose
Reference [2] Holdings (from August 2016); and the Council of the University of Buckingham (from July 2017).
Rory Tapner Rory Tapner (born 30 September 1959) is a UK businessman ...
Input Tell me a bio about G. Venugopa. (bio generation)
Output (ranked 1) [ Retrieve =Yes] <p>Reference [1]<p>[ I S R EL =Relevant] G. Venugopal is a popu-
lar playback singer in the Malayalam film industry. [ Retrieve =Continue] He has sung over 300 songs in
Malayalam, Tamil, and Hindi movies.[ I S S UP =Partially Supported] [ Retrieve =Yes] <p>Reference
[2]<p>G. Venugopal was born on December 10, 1960 in India.[ I S S UP =Fully Supported]
Reference [1] ’G. Venugopal G Venugopal (born 10 December 1960) is an Indian playback singer known for his
work in Malayalam films. He started his singing career in the film “Odaruthammaava Aalariyaam” (1984). Since
then he has sung in more than 300 films; and has over 500 private albums to his credit. The many awards he has
won include the coveted Best Playback Singer (Kerala State) which he won thrice, the Film Critics award and
the Kerala Kaumudi Gallop Poll award (twice). He won The Kerala State award for Best Playback singer (2004)
third time for the song ”aadedee..aadaadedee” from the film ”Ullam”.Venugopal’
Reference [2] Kerala State Film Awards: Kerala Film Critics Award Kerala State Government Award (Profes-
sional Drama): Asianet Film Awards: Kerala Kaumadi Gallup Poll Award: Academic G. Venugopal G Venugopal
(born 10 December 1960) is an Indian playback singer known for his work in Malayalam films.

                                       Table 7: Examples of outputs.




                                                       25
Preprint.




    Instructions
    Given an instruction, please make a judgment on whether finding some external documents
    from the web (e.g., Wikipedia) helps to generate a better response. Please answer [Yes] or
    [No] and write an explanation.

    Demonstrations
    Instruction Give three tips for staying healthy.
    Need retrieval? [Yes]
    Explanation There might be some online sources listing three tips for staying healthy or
    some reliable sources to explain the effects of different behaviors on health. So retrieving
    documents is helpful to improve the response to this query.

    Instruction Describe a time when you had to make a difficult decision.
    Need retrieval? [No]
    Explanation This instruction is asking about some personal experience and thus it does not
    require one to find some external documents.

    Instruction Write a short story in third person narration about a protagonist who
    has to make an important career decision.
    Need retrieval? [No]
    Explanation This instruction asks us to write a short story, which does not require external
    evidence to verify.

   Instruction What is the capital of France?
   Need retrieval? [Yes]
   Explanation While the instruction simply asks us to answer the capital of France, which is a
   widely known fact, retrieving web documents for this question can still help.

    Instruction Find the area of a circle given its radius. Radius = 4
    Need retrieval? [No]
    Explanation This is a math question and although we may be able to find some documents
    describing a formula, it is unlikely to find a document exactly mentioning the answer.

    Instruction Arrange the words in the given sentence to form a grammatically cor-
    rect sentence. quickly the brown fox jumped
    Need retrieval? [No]
    Explanation This task doesn’t require any external evidence, as it is a simple grammatical
    question.

    Instruction Explain the process of cellular respiration in plants.
    Need retrieval? [Yes]
    Explanation This instruction asks for a detailed description of a scientific concept, and is
    highly likely that we can find a reliable and useful document to support the response.


            Table 8: Instructions and demonstrations for Retrieve aspect given the input only.




                                                   26
Preprint.




    Instructions
   You will be provided with an instruction, evidence, output sentence, and preceding sentences
   (optional). If the preceding sentence is given, the output should be the sentence that follows
    those preceding sentences. Your task is to determine whether the information in the output
    sentence can be fully verified by the evidence or if it requires further external verification.
   There are three cases:
   - If the output sentence can be verified solely with the evidence, then respond with [Continue
    to Use Evidence].
   - If the sentence doesn’t require any factual verification (e.g., a subjective sentence or a
    sentence about common sense), then respond with [No Retrieval].
   - If additional information is needed to verify the output sentence, respond with [Retrieval].
    Please provide explanations for your judgments.

   Instruction Explain the use of word embeddings in Natural Language Processing.
   Preceding sentences Word embeddings are one of the most powerful tools available for
   Natural Language Processing (NLP). They are mathematical representations of words or
   phrases in a vector space, allowing similarities between words and the context in which they
   are used to be measured.
   Evidence: Word embedding
   Word embedding is the collective name for a set of language modeling and feature learning
   techniques in natural language processing (NLP) where words or phrases from the vocabulary
   are mapped to vectors of real numbers. Conceptually it involves a mathematical embedding
   from a space with one dimension per word to a continuous vector space with a much lower
   dimension. Output: Word embeddings are useful for tasks such as sentiment analysis, text
   classification, predicting the next word in a sequence, and understanding synonyms and
   analogies.
   Rating [Retrieval]
   Explanation The output discusses the applications of word embeddings, while the evidence
   only discusses the definitions of word embeddings and how they work. Therefore, we need to
   retrieve other evidence to verify whether the output is correct or not.


Table 9: Instructions and demonstrations for Retrieve aspect given the input, preceding generations,
and retrieved passages.




                                                 27
Preprint.




   Instructions
   You’ll be provided with an instruction, along with evidence and possibly some preceding
   sentences. When there are preceding sentences, your focus should be on the sentence that
   comes after them. Your job is to determine if the evidence is relevant to the initial instruction
   and the preceding context, and provides useful information to complete the task described in
   the instruction. If the evidence meets this requirement, respond with [Relevant]; otherwise,
   generate [Irrelevant].

   Instruction Given four answer options, A, B, C, and D, choose the best answer.
   Input Earth’s rotating causes
   A: the cycling of AM and PM
   B: the creation of volcanic eruptions
   C: the cycling of the tides
   D: the creation of gravity
   Evidence Rotation causes the day-night cycle which also creates a corresponding cycle of
   temperature and humidity creates a corresponding cycle of temperature and humidity. Sea
   level rises and falls twice a day as the earth rotates.
   Rating [Relevant]
   Explanation The evidence explicitly mentions that the rotation causes a day-night cycle, as
   described in the answer option A.

    Instruction age to run for US House of Representatives
    Evidence The Constitution sets three qualifications for service in the U.S. Senate: age (at
    least thirty years of age); U.S. citizenship (at least nine years); and residency in the state a
    senator represents at the time of election.
    Rating [Irrelevant]
    Explanation The evidence only discusses the ages to run for the US Senate, not for the
    House of Representatives.


        Table 10: Instructions and demonstrations for      I S R EL   aspect given the input only.




                                                  28
Preprint.




   Instructions
   You will receive an instruction, evidence, and output, and optional preceding sentences. If the
   preceding sentence is given, the output should be the sentence that follows those preceding
   sentences. Your task is to evaluate if the output is fully supported by the information provided
   in the evidence.
   Use the following entailment scale to generate a score:
   - [Fully supported] - All information in output is supported by the evidence, or extractions
   from the evidence. This is only applicable when the output and part of the evidence are
   almost identical.
   - [Partially supported] - The output is supported by the evidence to some extent, but there
   is major information in the output that is not discussed in the evidence. For example, if an
   instruction asks about two concepts and the evidence only discusses either of them, it should
   be considered a [Partially supported].
   - [No support / Contradictory] - The output completely ignores evidence, is unrelated to the
   evidence, or contradicts the evidence. This can also happen if the evidence is irrelevant to the
   instruction.

   Make sure to not use any external information/knowledge to judge whether the out-
   put is true or not. Only check whether the output is supported by the evidence, and not
   whether the output follows the instructions or not.

   Instruction Explain the use of word embeddings in Natural Language Processing.
   Preceding sentences Word embeddings are one of the most powerful tools available for
   Natural Language Processing (NLP). They are mathematical representations of words or
   phrases in a vector space, allowing similarities between words and the context in which they
   are used to be measured.
   Output Word embeddings are useful for tasks such as sentiment analysis, text classification,
   predicting the next word in a sequence, and understanding synonyms and analogies.
   Evidence Word embedding
   Word embedding is the collective name for a set of language modeling and feature learning
   techniques in natural language processing (NLP) where words or phrases from the vocabulary
   are mapped to vectors of real numbers. Conceptually it involves a mathematical embedding
   from a space with one dimension per word to a continuous vector space with a much lower
   dimension. Methods to generate this mapping include neural networks, dimensionality
   reduction on the word co-occurrence matrix, probabilistic models, explainable knowledge
   base method, and explicit representation in terms of the context in which words appear. Word
   and phrase embeddings, when used as the underlying input representation, have been shown
   to boost the performance in NLP tasks such as syntactic parsing, sentiment analysis, next
   token predictions as well and analogy detection.
   Score [Fully supported]
   Explanation The output sentence discusses the application of word embeddings, and the
   evidence mentions all of the applications syntactic parsing, sentiment analysis, next token
   predictions as well as analogy detection as the applications. Therefore, the score should be
   [Fully supported].


                   Table 11: Instructions and demonstrations for     I S S UP   tokens.




                                                 29
Preprint.




    Instructions
    Given an instruction and an output, rate whether the response appears to be a helpful and
    informative answer to the query, from 1 (lowest) - 5 (highest). We call this score perceived
    utility. The detailed criterion is as follows: 5: The response provides a complete, highly
    detailed, and informative response to the query, fully satisfying the information needs. 4: The
    response mostly fulfills the need in the query, while there can be some minor improvements
    such as discussing more detailed information, having better structure of the response, or im-
    proving coherence. 3: The response is acceptable, but some major additions or improvements
    are needed to satisfy users’ needs. 2: The response still addresses the main request, but it is
    not complete or not relevant to the query. 1: The response is barely on-topic or completely
    irrelevant.

    Instruction Who is the current prime minister of the UK as of 2023?
    Output Boris Johnson was the prime minister of the UK from 2019 - 2022.
    Perceived utility 2
    Explanation While the output provides a factually correct statement about the UK prime
    minister from 2019 to 2022, this instruction asks who the prime minister is as of 2023, so it
    doesn’t answer the instruction. Therefore, the utility is 2.

    Instruction Given a description of a travel destination, recommend 10 tourist attrac-
    tions with detailed descriptions of each. The travel destination is Tokyo, Japan.
    Output Tokyo is a vibrant city full of exciting tourist attractions. Some must-see sights
    include the Tokyo Skytree, Tokyo Disneyland, Sensoji Temple, Meiji Shrine, Tsukiji Fish
    Market, Harajuku, and Shinjuku Gyoen.
    Perceived utility 3
    Explanation This output doesn’t provide descriptions of each attraction and the number of
    the attractions is also less than 10. While this output partially answers the instructions, it
    doesn’t match the instructions strictly.


                   Table 12: Instructions and demonstrations for     I S U SE   tokens.




                                                 30
