                                         Hindsight Technical Report




                                         H INDSIGHT IS 20/20: B UILDING AGENT M EMORY
                                         THAT R ETAINS , R ECALLS , AND R EFLECTS

                                          Chris Latimer♣ , Nicoló Boschi♣ , Andrew Neeser♢ , Chris Bartholomew♣ ,
                                          Gaurav Srivastava♡ , Xuan Wang♡ , Naren Ramakrishnan♡
                                          ♣
                                            Vectorize.io, USA
                                          ♢
                                            The Washington Post, USA
                                          ♡
                                            Virginia Tech, USA




arXiv:2512.12818v1 [cs.CL] 14 Dec 2025
                                                                                      A BSTRACT
                                                  Agent memory has been touted as a dimension of growth for LLM-based appli-
                                                  cations, enabling agents that can accumulate experience, adapt across sessions,
                                                  and move beyond single-shot question answering. The current generation of agent
                                                  memory systems treats memory as an external layer that extracts salient snippets
                                                  from conversations, stores them in vector or graph-based stores, and retrieves top-k
                                                  items into the prompt of an otherwise stateless model. While these systems improve
                                                  personalization and context carry-over, they still blur the line between evidence and
                                                  inference, struggle to organize information over long horizons, and offer limited
                                                  support for agents that must explain their reasoning. We present H INDSIGHT, a
                                                  memory architecture that treats agent memory as a structured, first-class substrate
                                                  for reasoning by organizing it into four logical networks that distinguish world
                                                  facts, agent experiences, synthesized entity summaries, and evolving beliefs. This
                                                  framework supports three core operations—retain, recall, and reflect—that gov-
                                                  ern how information is added, accessed, and updated. Under this abstraction, a
                                                  temporal, entity-aware memory layer incrementally turns conversational streams
                                                  into a structured, queryable memory bank, while a reflection layer reasons over
                                                  this bank to produce answers and to update information in a traceable way. On
                                                  key long-horizon conversational memory benchmarks like LongMemEval and Lo-
                                                  CoMo, Hindsight with an open-source 20B model lifts overall accuracy from 39%
                                                  to 83.6% over a full-context baseline with the same backbone and outperforms
                                                  full-context GPT-4o. Scaling the backbone further pushes Hindsight to 91.4%
                                                  on LongMemEval and up to 89.61% on LoCoMo (vs. 75.78% for the strongest
                                                  prior open system), consistently outperforming existing memory architectures on
                                                  multi-session and open-domain questions.


                                         1    I NTRODUCTION
                                         AI agents are increasingly expected to behave less like stateless question answering systems and more
                                         like long-term partners: they are expected to remember past interactions, build up and track knowledge
                                         about the world, and maintain stable perspectives over time Packer et al. (2023); Rasmussen et al.
                                         (2025). However, the current generation of agent memory systems today are still built around short-
                                         context retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) pipelines and generic large language models (LLMs).
                                         Such designs treat memory as an external layer that extracts salient snippets from conversations,
                                         stores them in vector or graph-based stores, and retrieves top-k items into the prompt of an otherwise
                                         stateless model Wu et al. (2024); Maharana et al. (2024).
                                         As a result, current approaches to modeling agent memory struggle with three recurring challenges.
                                         First, they are unable to preserve and granularly access long-term information across sessions Tavakoli
                                         et al. (2025); Ai et al. (2025). Second, AI agents are unable to epistemically distinguish what the agent
                                         has observed from what it believes. Finally, such agents are notorious for their inability to exhibit
                                         preference consistency, i.e., expressing a stable reasoning style and viewpoint across interactions
                                         rather than producing locally plausible but globally inconsistent responses Huang et al. (2025).


                                                                                            1
Hindsight Technical Report




Recent work has begun to address these challenges through dedicated memory architectures for
agents, e.g., see Zhang et al. (2025b); Wu et al. (2025). Systems like MemGPT Packer et al. (2023)
introduce operating system-like memory management, while Zep Rasmussen et al. (2025) proposes
temporal knowledge graphs as an internal data structure. Other approaches focus on continual
learning Ai et al. (2025), reinforcement-based memory management Yan et al. (2025), or production-
ready memory systems Chhikara et al. (2025). While these systems improve personalization and
context carry-over, they still blur the line between evidence and inference, can struggle to selectively
organize information over long horizons, and offer limited support for agents that must explain why
they answered a question a certain way.
We present H INDSIGHT, a memory architecture for long-lived AI agents that addresses these chal-
lenges by unifying long-term factual recall with preference-conditioned reasoning. Each agent in
H INDSIGHT is backed by a structured memory bank that accumulates everything the agent has seen,
done, and decided over time, and a reasoning layer that uses this memory to answer questions, execute
workflows, form opinions, and update beliefs in a consistent way. Conceptually, H INDSIGHT ties
together two components: T EMPR (Temporal Entity Memory Priming Retrieval), which implements
the retain and recall operations over long-term memory, and C ARA (Coherent Adaptive Reasoning
Agents), which implements the reflect operation over that memory. T EMPR builds a temporal, entity-
aware memory graph and exposes an agent-optimized retrieval interface, while C ARA integrates
configurable disposition behavioral parameters into the reasoning process and maintains an explicit
opinion network that evolves over time.
At the core of H INDSIGHT is a simple abstraction: a memory bank organized into four logical
networks (world, experience, opinion, observation) and three core operations (retain, recall, and
reflect, as mentioned earlier). The world and experience networks store objective facts about the
external world and the agent’s own experiences. The opinion network stores subjective beliefs
with confidence scores that can be updated as new evidence arrives. The observation network stores
preference-neutral summaries of entities synthesized from underlying facts. T EMPR implements retain
and recall by extracting narrative facts with temporal ranges, resolving entities and constructing graph
links, and retrieving memories via multi-strategy search. C ARA implements reflect by combining
retrieved memories with an agent profile (name, background, and disposition behavioral parameters)
to generate preference-shaped responses and to form and reinforce opinions. As we will demonstrate
empirically, this design provides several performance advantages over existing memory systems Xu
et al. (2025); Liu et al. (2025); Wang et al. (2025).
Our contributions are:

      1. A unified memory architecture for agents. H INDSIGHT’s organization of memory into
         separate networks with core operations helps separate evidence, synthesize summaries better,
         and supports evolving beliefs, while supporting epistemic clarity and traceability.
      2. Retain, recall and reflect layers specialized for agent memory. Our key operational
         primitives help turn conversational transcripts into a structured, queryable memory bank
         with ability to reason over this bank and update beliefs in a stable, auditable manner.
      3. Empirical evaluation on long-horizon conversational benchmarks. We evaluate H IND -
         SIGHT on LongMemEval and LoCoMo: with an open-source 20B backbone it lifts overall
         accuracy from 39.0% to 83.6% over a full-context baseline on LongMemEval and from
         75.78% to 85.67% on LoCoMo, and with larger backbones reaches 91.4% and 89.61%
         respectively, matching or surpassing prior memory systems and frontier-backed full-context
         baselines.



2    R ELATED W ORK

Recent work in agent memory spans context management systems that handle LLM window con-
straints, structured memory architectures built on temporal knowledge graphs, evaluation benchmarks
that test these systems, and cognitive frameworks inspired by human memory. We group related work
into two categories and discuss how H INDSIGHT differs.


                                                   2
Hindsight Technical Report




2.1      M EMORY A RCHITECTURES AND S YSTEMS

Tiered context management systems. Early systems extended context using tiered architectures.
MemGPT (Packer et al., 2023) pages information between active prompt and archival storage, treating
memory as unstructured text blocks without separating facts from beliefs. LIGHT (Tavakoli et al.,
2025) handles conversations up to 10 million tokens using episodic memory, working memory, and
scratchpad buffers, but does not distinguish subjective beliefs from objective observations.
Structured memory with knowledge graphs. Several systems use knowledge graphs for retrieval.
Zep (Rasmussen et al., 2025) builds temporal knowledge graphs with bi-temporal modeling that tracks
when facts are valid versus when they were recorded, but focuses on objective facts without modeling
subjective beliefs or behavioral profiles. A-Mem (Xu et al., 2025) uses the Zettelkasten method to
create atomic notes with LLM-generated links that evolve over time, but treats all memory uniformly
without separating facts from opinions. Mem0 (Chhikara et al., 2025) focuses on production efficiency
with dense retrieval and graph representations, handling fact conflicts through database updates rather
than belief evolution. Memory-R1 (Yan et al., 2025) uses reinforcement learning to train agents
on memory operations to maximize QA accuracy, but does not focus on cognitive structure and
behavioral profile consistency. MemVerse (Liu et al., 2025) handles multimodal memory through
a dual-path architecture combining retrieval and parametric memory via fine-tuning, which raises
editability issues that H INDSIGHT avoids by using only external memory. KARMA (Wang et al.,
2025) targets embodied AI with 3D scene graphs for spatial reasoning in robotics, not conversational
agents. Table 1 compares these systems across key architectural features.

                                                                                                          Hindsight
      Feature                    MemGPT   LIGHT   Zep   A-Mem    Mem0      Memory-R1   MemVerse   KARMA
                                                                                                           (Ours)
      Separates facts/opinions     ✗       ✗      ✗      ✗         ✗          ✗           ✗         ✗        ✓
      Temporal reasoning           ✗       ✗      ✓      ✗         ✗          ✗           ✗         ✗        ✓
      Entity-aware graph           ✗       ✗      ✓      ✓         ✓          ✗           ✗         ✓        ✓
      Opinion evolution            ✗       ✗      ✗      ✗         ✗          ✗           ✗         ✗        ✓
      Behavioral parameters        ✗       ✗      ✗      ✗         ✗          ✗           ✗         ✗        ✓
      Confidence scores            ✗       ✗      ✗      ✗         ✗          ✗           ✗         ✗        ✓
      External-only memory         ✓       ✓      ✓      ✓         ✓          ✓           ✗         ✓        ✓
      Multi-strategy retrieval     ✗       ✗      ✗      ✗       Partial      ✗           ✓         ✗        ✓


Table 1: Comparison of memory architectures. ✓: feature present; ✗: absent. H INDSIGHT
separates objective facts from subjective opinions, maintains profile-conditioned reasoning with
disposition behavioral parameters, and supports dynamic opinion evolution with confidence scores.


2.2      B ENCHMARKS AND C OGNITIVE F OUNDATIONS

Evaluation benchmarks. Recent benchmarks that aim to evaluate long-context reasoning and
selective recall have grown in prominence. LoCoMo (Maharana et al., 2024) features very long
dialogues (up to 35 sessions) wherein LLMs and traditional RAG systems struggle with long-range
temporal and causal reasoning. LongMemEval (Wu et al., 2024) tests information extraction, multi-
session reasoning, and temporal reasoning across conversations featuring upto 1.5 million tokens.
MemoryBench (Ai et al., 2025) tests continual learning from feedback and finds that existing systems
fail to use feedback effectively without forgetting. These benchmarks show that current systems are
unable to maintain consistent behavioral profiles or handle opinion evolution.
Cognitive foundations. Several surveys have attempted to connect agent memory to human memory
models. Recent work (Zhang et al., 2025b) categorizes memory by source, form, and operations,
noting that most work focuses on task completion over consistency and that parametric memory is
hard to interpret. Other work (Wu et al., 2025) draws parallels between episodic/semantic memory
and RAG/knowledge graphs, pointing out gaps in implicit memory and forgetting. The memory
quadruple framework (Zhang et al., 2025a) highlights key facets of memory—storage, persistence,
access, and controllability—arguing for external memory that supports dynamic updates. Work on
cognitive memory (Shan et al., 2025) distinguishes explicit and implicit memory and notes that LLMs
struggle with human-like knowledge integration. Recent findings (Huang et al., 2025) show that
LLMs lack true working memory and must externalize state into context windows.
While earlier work has focused on storage, retrieval, and scale, recent developments in agent systems
blur what agents observe versus what they believe, cannot maintain stable behavioral profiles across


                                                             3
Hindsight Technical Report




      World Network: “Alice works at Google in Mountain View on the AI team”
      Experience Network: “I recommended Yosemite National Park to Alice for hiking”
      Opinion Network: “Python is better for data science because of libraries like pandas”
      (Confidence: 0.85)
      Observation Network: “Alice is a software engineer at Google specializing in machine
      learning”


Figure 1: Examples of facts stored in each of the four memory networks. Each network serves a
distinct epistemic role in organizing agent knowledge.


long interactions, and have no way to evolve subjective beliefs over time. In the rest of the paper, we
demonstrate how H INDSIGHT addresses these gaps.


3     H INDSIGHT OVERVIEW

H INDSIGHT is a memory architecture for AI agents that unifies long-term factual recall with
preference-conditioned reasoning. Each agent is backed by a memory bank that accumulates interac-
tions encountered over time, and a reasoning layer that uses this memory to answer questions, form
opinions, and update its beliefs in a consistent way.

3.1   F OUR -N ETWORK M EMORY O RGANIZATION

At the core of H INDSIGHT is a memory bank organized into four logical networks, each serving a
distinct epistemic role. Let M = {W, B, O, S} denote the four networks that partition the memory
space, where each network maintains a specialized subset of facts.
The world network W stores objective facts about the external world—factual statements independent
of the agent’s perspective or preferences, where each fact fw ∈ W captures information such as
relationships, attributes, or events observed in the environment.
The experience network B stores biographical information about the agent itself, written in the first
person, where each fact fb ∈ B represents the agent’s own experiences, actions, or recommendations.
The opinion network O stores subjective judgments formed by the agent, where each opinion fo ∈ O
is a tuple (t, c, τ ) with t as the opinion text, c ∈ [0, 1] as a confidence score representing belief
strength, and τ as the timestamp of formation.
The observation network S stores preference-neutral summaries of entities synthesized from multiple
underlying facts, where each observation fs ∈ S provides a compact, objective profile derived from
facts in W and B.
Together, these networks provide a structured mental model of the agent’s world knowledge, personal
history, subjective beliefs, and synthesized entity profiles.

3.2   T HREE C ORE O PERATIONS

H INDSIGHT exposes the four-network memory structure through three core operations that govern
how information is added, accessed, and updated. Let B denote a memory bank, which is a named
container that holds the four networks M = {W, B, O, S} and an associated agent profile. Let D
denote input data (e.g., conversational transcripts or documents to be retained), let Q denote a query,
and let k denote a token budget. The three operations are defined as follows:
Retain(B, D) → M′ takes a memory bank B and input data D, ingests the conversational transcripts
or other inputs in D, and converts them into narrative facts with temporal ranges, canonical entities,
and graph links, extracting facts from D, classifying each fact into one of the four networks, and


                                                  4
Hindsight Technical Report




Figure 2: End-to-end Hindsight architecture. The system processes input data D through TEMPR’s
retain pipeline (fact extraction, embedding generation, entity resolution, link construction) to build
a structured memory bank B containing four networks: world (W), experience (B), opinion (O),
and observation (S). Given a query Q and token budget k, TEMPR’s recall pipeline performs
four-way parallel retrieval (semantic, BM25, graph, temporal), applies Reciprocal Rank Fusion and
cross-encoder reranking, and returns relevant facts. CARA’s reflect operation takes these facts along
with the behavioral profile Θ to generate preference-conditioned responses r while forming and
reinforcing opinions, updating the opinion network O′ .


updating the memory graph (when new evidence arrives, existing beliefs in O are also updated
through an opinion reinforcement mechanism).
Recall(B, Q, k) → {f1 , . . . , fn } takes as input memory bank B, query Q, and token budget k,
and retrieves a variable-sized set of relevant memories from B in response to query Q, combining
semantic vector search, keyword search, graph traversal, and temporal filtering into a unified multi-
strategy retrieval pipeline that returns the n most relevant facts such that their combined token count
does not exceed k.
Finally, Reflect(B, Q, Θ) → (r, O′ ) takes memory bank B, query Q, and behavioral profile Θ
(consisting of disposition behavioral parameters (skepticism, literalism, empathy) and a bias-strength
parameter), generates a response r to query Q whose reasoning and tone are shaped by Θ, first
invoking recall to retrieve relevant memories from B, then applying preference-conditioned generation
to produce a response, where new opinions may be formed during this process, resulting in an updated
opinion network O′ .

3.3   C OMPONENT A RCHITECTURE

The two main components of H INDSIGHT implement these operations with distinct responsibilities:
T EMPR realizes the retain and recall stages. It builds the four-network memory graph via LLM-
powered narrative fact extraction, entity resolution, and link construction. TEMPR provides a retrieval
interface optimized for agents, with token budgets and multi-hop discovery over temporal and entity-
aware links. The retain pipeline processes input data by extracting narrative facts, generating
embeddings, resolving entities, and constructing four types of graph links: temporal, semantic, entity,
and causal.
C ARA realizes the reflect stage. It integrates configurable disposition behavioral parameters into the
reasoning process, operates over H INDSIGHT’s networks to separate facts from beliefs, and maintains
a dynamic opinion network via opinion formation and reinforcement. The behavioral profile consists
of three disposition parameters (skepticism, literalism, empathy), each ranging from 1 to 5, and a
bias-strength parameter between 0 and 1. CARA uses this profile to modulate the generation process,


                                                  5
Hindsight Technical Report




ensuring that responses align with the configured behavioral style. Figure 2 provides a comprehensive
view of the end-to-end architecture, showing the data flow from input through TEMPR’s retain and
recall pipelines, the four-network memory bank structure, and CARA’s preference-conditioned reflect
operation.

3.4     D ESIGN P RINCIPLES

The architecture of H INDSIGHT is designed around several goals that recur throughout the paper. First,
we aim for epistemic clarity, wherein facts, observations, and opinions are kept structurally distinct
so that developers and users can see what the agent knows versus what it believes. The four-network
organization M = {W, B, O, S} provides explicit separation between objective evidence (W, B),
subjective beliefs (O), and synthesized summaries (S). Second, each memory unit f carries temporal
metadata (τs , τe , τm ) where τs and τe define the occurrence interval and τm denotes the mention time,
enabling precise historical queries and recency-aware ranking. This achieves temporal awareness,
wherein for a query with constraint [τstart , τend ], the system retrieves facts where the occurrence interval
overlaps with the query range. Third, this approach supports Entity-aware reasoning leveraging graph
links over shared entities, semantic similarity, temporal proximity, and causal relationships support
multi-hop discovery of indirectly related information. The memory graph is the underlying data
structure that connects all memory units: formally, G = (V, E) where V is the set of all memory units
(facts stored in the four networks) and E is the set of weighted edges between them. Each edge e ∈ E
has a type ℓ ∈ {temporal, semantic, entity, causal} and weight we ∈ [0, 1], enabling traversal-based
retrieval. Finally, H INDSIGHT aims for preference consistency, disposition behavioral parameters
(skepticism, literalism, empathy) and a bias-strength parameter ensure that agents express stable
perspectives over time while still allowing their beliefs to evolve as new evidence arrives, where the
confidence score c in each opinion (t, c, τ ) ∈ O is updated through a reinforcement mechanism when
supporting or contradicting evidence is retained.
The following sections instantiate H INDSIGHT’s architecture. Section 4 describes TEMPR, which
implements H INDSIGHT’s retain and recall operations and builds the four-network memory graph.
Section 5 then presents CARA, which implements the reflect operation and shows how preference-
aware reasoning is layered on top of this memory substrate. Section 6 describes the unified integration
of these components followed by experimental results.


4     TEMPR: R ETAIN AND R ECALL

As described earlier, TEMPR (Temporal Entity Memory Priming Retrieval) implements H INDSIGHT’s
retain and recall operations. It is responsible for turning raw conversational transcripts into a
structured, temporal, entity-aware memory graph, and for retrieving variable amounts of relevant
information for downstream reasoning. We first describe how TEMPR retains information by
organizing memories, extracting narrative facts, and constructing an entity-aware graph. We then
describe how it recalls information using a four-way parallel retrieval architecture with fusion and
neural re-ranking. The neural components used in this pipeline, including the embedding model
for semantic retrieval, the cross encoder reranker, and the downstream LLM, can all be treated as
configurable modules rather than fixed backbones.

4.1     R ETAIN : B UILDING A T EMPORAL E NTITY M EMORY G RAPH

4.1.1    M EMORY O RGANIZATION
As introduced in Section 3, H INDSIGHT organizes memories into four networks to separate objective
information, subjective beliefs, and synthesized summaries. TEMPR instantiates this design by
storing each extracted fact in exactly one network and attaching it to the shared memory graph. Each
fact f is assigned a type ℓ(f ) ∈ {world, experience, opinion, observation} that determines its target
network.
Each memory is stored as a self-contained node that combines natural language, vector representations,
and temporal metadata. Formally, a memory unit is a tuple:
                                     f = (u, b, t, v, τs , τe , τm , ℓ, c, x)                             (1)


                                                        6
Hindsight Technical Report




        Fragmented Extraction (Avoided)

        Five separate facts:
               • “Bob suggested Summer Vibes”
               • “Alice wanted something unique”
               • “They considered Sunset Sessions”
               • “Alice likes Beach Beats”
               • “They chose Beach Beats”



        Narrative Extraction (Used)

        Single narrative fact:
        Alice and Bob discussed naming their summer party playlist. Bob suggested “Summer
        Vibes” because it is catchy and seasonal, but Alice wanted something more unique. Bob
        then proposed “Sunset Sessions” and “Beach Beats,” with Alice favoring “Beach Beats”
        for its playful and fun tone. They ultimately decided on “Beach Beats” as the final name.


Figure 3: Comparison of fragmented versus narrative fact extraction. TEMPR uses narrative extraction
to create comprehensive, self-contained facts that preserve context and reasoning across multiple
conversational turns.


where u is a unique identifier, b is the bank identifier, t is the narrative text, v ∈ Rd is the embedding
vector, τs and τe define the occurrence interval, τm is the mention timestamp, ℓ is the fact type,
c ∈ [0, 1] is an optional confidence score (for opinions), and x contains auxiliary metadata such as
context, access count, and full-text search vectors.
These fields allow TEMPR to treat each memory as a single unit for storage, graph construction, and
retrieval, while supporting both semantic and lexical search as well as temporal and opinion-aware
reasoning.

4.1.2     LLM-BASED NARRATIVE FACT E XTRACTION
TEMPR uses an open-source LLM to convert conversational transcripts into narrative facts and
associated metadata. Compared to rule-based or sentence-level pipelines, this approach lets us extract
self-contained facts that preserve cross-turn context and reasoning.

Chunking Strategy. We use coarse-grained chunking, extracting 2–5 comprehensive facts per
conversation. Each fact is intended to cover an entire exchange rather than a single utterance, be
narrative and self-contained, include all relevant participants, and preserve the pragmatic flow of the
interaction. Fig. 3 illustrates this approach. Instead of storing five fragmented facts, we store a single
narrative fact that makes downstream retrieval and reasoning less sensitive to local segmentation
decisions.

Extraction Pipeline. The extraction model is prompted to produce structured output containing the
narrative text of each fact, normalized temporal information (including ranges), participants and their
roles, a fact type indicating the target network, and a set of mentioned entities (see Appendix A.1 for
the complete prompt template and Appendix A.5 for the structured output schema). Internally, we
decompose this into the following steps: 1) coreference resolution over the conversation to identify
entity mentions and their referents; 2) temporal expression normalization and range extraction
to convert relative time references (“last week”, “in March”) into absolute timestamps (τs , τe );
3) participant attribution to determine who did or said what in the conversation; 4) preservation
of explicit reasoning or justifications when present in the dialogue; 5) fact type classification to
assign ℓ(f ) ∈ {world, experience, opinion, observation} based on the nature of the statement; and 6)
entity extraction to identify PERSON, ORGANIZATION, LOCATION, PRODUCT, CONCEPT, and


                                                    7
Hindsight Technical Report




OTHER entity types. Before embedding, we augment each fact with a human-readable time reference
derived from the normalized timestamps, which improves temporal awareness during retrieval and
reranking.

4.1.3   E NTITY R ESOLUTION AND L INKING
Entity resolution links memories that refer to the same underlying entity, enabling multi-hop reasoning
over the memory graph.

Recognition and Disambiguation The LLM used for fact extraction (described above) also
identifies entity mentions during fact extraction. We then map mentions to canonical entities using a
combination of string and name similarity (e.g., Levenshtein distance), co-occurrence patterns with
other entities, and temporal proximity of mentions. Let M be the set of all entity mentions and E be
the set of canonical entities. The resolution function ρ : M → E maps each mention m ∈ M to a
canonical entity e ∈ E by maximizing a similarity score:
              ρ(m) = arg max [α · simstr (m, e) + β · simco (m, e) + γ · simtemp (m, e)]              (2)
                          e∈E

where simstr , simco , and simtemp are string similarity, co-occurrence similarity, and temporal proximity
scores respectively, and α, β, γ are weighting coefficients.

Entity Link Structure Each canonical entity e ∈ E induces edges of type entity between all
memories that mention it. Formally, for any two memory units fi and fj that both mention entity e,
we create a bidirectional link:
                                 eij = (fi , fj , w = 1.0, ℓ = entity, e)                             (3)
These entity links enable graph traversal to surface indirectly related facts. For example, conversations
about the same person across distant time spans that would be difficult to retrieve with vector or
keyword search alone can be discovered through entity links.

4.1.4   L INK T YPES AND G RAPH S TRUCTURE
In addition to entity links, the memory graph G = (V, E) contains three other edge types. Let V
be the set of all memory units and E be the set of directed edges. Each edge e ∈ E is a tuple
(fi , fj , w, ℓ) where fi , fj ∈ V are memory units, w ∈ [0, 1] is a weight, and ℓ is the link type.
1) Temporal Links. For any two memories fi and fj with temporal metadata, we create a temporal
link if they are close in time. The weight decays as temporal distance increases:
                                                            
                                         temp           ∆tij
                                       wij    = exp −                                      (4)
                                                         σt
where ∆tij is the time difference between fi and fj , and σt is a decay parameter.
2) Semantic Links. For any two memories fi and fj with embeddings vi , vj ∈ Rd , we create a
semantic link if their cosine similarity exceeds a threshold θs :
                                         ( v ·v            v ·v
                                              i j
                                                      if ∥vii∥∥vjj ∥ ≥ θs
                                wij = ∥vi ∥∥vj ∥
                                  sem
                                                                                         (5)
                                           0          otherwise

3) Causal Links. Causal relationships are extracted by the LLM and represent cause-effect relation-
ships. These links are upweighted during traversal to favor explanatory connections. Let C ⊆ V × V
be the set of causal relationships identified by the LLM. For (fi , fj ) ∈ C, we create a causal link with
          causal
weight wij       = 1.0 and type ℓ ∈ {causes, caused_by, enables, prevents}.
Together, entity, temporal, semantic, and causal links support multi-hop discovery across the mem-
ory graph, allowing TEMPR to surface information that is related by identity, time, meaning, or
explanation rather than by surface form alone.

4.1.5   T HE O BSERVATION PARADIGM
Observations provide structured, objective summaries of entities that sit on top of raw narrative facts.


                                                    8
Hindsight Technical Report




Motivation and Design. For simple entity-centric queries (e.g., “Tell me about Alice”), retrieving
all underlying facts can be inefficient and redundant. Instead, we maintain synthesized profiles
(observations) that summarize salient properties of each entity and can be referenced directly in
responses (see Appendix A.3 for the complete observation generation prompt). Let Fe ⊂ V be the
set of all facts that mention entity e. An observation oe is generated by applying an LLM-based
summarization function:
                                      oe = SummarizeLLM (Fe )                                   (6)
where the LLM is instructed to produce a concise, preference-neutral summary.

Observations vs. Opinions. Observations and opinions differ along several dimensions that matter
for reasoning. Observations are generated without behavioral profile influence, whereas opinions are
explicitly shaped by the bank’s disposition behavioral parameters (skepticism, literalism, empathy).
Observations provide objective summaries of entities (e.g., roles, attributes), while opinions capture
subjective evaluations and judgments. Observations do not carry confidence scores, but opinions
include a confidence score c ∈ [0, 1] representing belief strength. Observations are produced via
background synthesis and regenerated when underlying facts change, whereas opinions are formed
during reflection and updated via reinforcement.

Background Processing. Observation generation and regeneration run asynchronously to maintain
low-latency writes while gradually improving the quality of entity-centric summaries. When new
facts mentioning entity e are retained, a background task is triggered to recompute oe based on the
updated set Fe .

4.2     R ECALL : AGENT-O PTIMIZED R ETRIEVAL A RCHITECTURE

Given the memory graph described above, TEMPR must retrieve variable amounts of relevant context
for a query while respecting the downstream LLM’s context window. Unlike conventional search
systems that expose a fixed top-k interface, our setting requires an agent-optimized retrieval layer.
The caller can trade off latency and coverage, and the system must exploit both the graph structure
and temporal metadata of memories.
To accomplish the above objective, TEMPR combines several complementary retrieval strategies into
a single pipeline with Reciprocal Rank Fusion and neural reranking. The result is a recall mechanism
that can surface both directly and indirectly related memories (via entities, time, and causal links),
and present them in a form that fits within a specified token budget.

4.2.1    AGENT-O PTIMIZED R ETRIEVAL I NTERFACE

Rather than exposing a fixed top-k interface, TEMPR lets the caller specify how much context to
retrieve and how much effort to spend finding it. Formally, the retrieval function is:

                                  Recall(B, Q, k) → {f1 , . . . , fn }                              (7)

where B is the memory bank, Q is the query, and k is a token budget aligned with the downstream
LLM’s context window. An optional cost or latency budget may also be specified to cap how
aggressively to expand search. The returned set satisfies:
                                             n
                                             X
                                                   |fi | ≤ k                                        (8)
                                             i=1

where |fi | denotes the token count of fact fi . This allows agents to request “just enough” memory for
simple questions, or to spend more budget on broader, multi-hop recall when the task is complex.

4.2.2    F OUR -WAY PARALLEL R ETRIEVAL

To populate the candidate set for a query, TEMPR runs four retrieval channels in parallel, each
capturing a different notion of relevance. Let Q be the query with embedding vQ ∈ Rd and text tQ .


                                                    9
Hindsight Technical Report




Semantic Retrieval (Vector Similarity) The semantic retrieval channel performs vector similarity
search using cosine similarity between the query embedding vQ and memory embeddings. Let V
be the set of all memory units in the target network. The semantic score for each memory f with
embedding vf is:
                                                     vQ · v f
                                     ssem (Q, f ) =                                          (9)
                                                    ∥vQ ∥∥vf ∥
We use an HNSW-based pgvector index to efficiently retrieve the top-k memories by semantic score:
                                                 X
                            Rsem = arg max            ssem (Q, f )                           (10)
                                            S⊆V,|S|=k f ∈S

This channel is responsible for capturing conceptual similarity and paraphrases, and typically provides
high recall on meaning-level matches even when surface forms differ.

Keyword Retrieval (BM25) In parallel, we run a lexical channel using a full-text search with
BM25 ranking over a GIN index on the memory text. Let BM25(tQ , f ) denote the BM25 score for
query text tQ and memory f . The top-k keyword matches are:
                                               X
                              Rbm25 = arg max      BM25(tQ , f )                         (11)
                                           S⊆V,|S|=k f ∈S

This channel excels at precise matching of proper nouns and technical terms (e.g., specific API names
or dataset identifiers) and complements the semantic channel by recovering items that might be
underrepresented or ambiguous in the embedding space.

Graph Retrieval (Spreading Activation) The third channel exploits the memory graph G = (V, E)
via spreading activation. Beginning with the top semantic hits as entry points, we perform breadth-first
search with activation propagation. Let A(f, t) denote the activation of memory f at step t. Initially,
A(f, 0) = ssem (Q, f ) for entry points and A(f, 0) = 0 otherwise. At each step, activation propagates
along edges:
                          A(fj , t + 1) =     max     [A(fi , t) · w · δ · µ(ℓ)]                   (12)
                                           (fi ,fj ,w,ℓ)∈E

where δ ∈ (0, 1) is a decay factor and µ(ℓ) is a link-type multiplier. Causal and entity edges have
µ(ℓ) > 1, while weak semantic or long-range temporal edges have µ(ℓ) ≤ 1. This process surfaces
memories that are not obviously similar to the query text but are connected through shared entities,
nearby events, or causal chains.

Temporal Graph Retrieval When a temporal constraint is detected in the query, we invoke a
temporal graph retrieval channel backed by a hybrid temporal parser. We first run a rule-based
analyzer that uses two off-the-shelf date parsing libraries with multilingual support to normalize
explicit and relative expressions (for example, “yesterday”, “last weekend”, or “June 2024”) into a
date range. This heuristic path handles the majority of queries at low latency. For queries that cannot
be resolved heuristically, we fall back to a lightweight sequence-to-sequence model (here, we use
google/flan-t5-small), which converts the remaining temporal expressions into a concrete date range
[τstart , τend ]. We then match against the occurrence intervals of memories:
                            Rtemp = {f ∈ V : [τsf , τef ] ∩ [τstart , τend ] ̸= ∅}                 (13)
Graph traversal is restricted to memories in Rtemp , prioritizing events that actually occurred in the
requested period. Each memory is scored by temporal proximity to the query range:
                                                               f      Q
                                                             |τmid − τmid |
                                    stemp (Q, f ) = 1 −                                            (14)
                                                                 ∆τ /2
       f          Q
where τmid and τmid    are the midpoints of the fact’s occurrence interval and the query range, and
∆τ = τend − τstart is the query range duration.
Running these four channels in parallel yields a diverse set of candidates: semantically similar
memories, exact lexical matches, graph-neighbor memories connected via entities and causal links,
and time-constrained events aligned with the query’s temporal intent.


                                                     10
Hindsight Technical Report




4.2.3   R ECIPROCAL R ANK F USION (RRF)
After parallel retrieval, TEMPR merges the four ranked lists using Reciprocal Rank Fusion. Let
R1 , R2 , R3 , R4 denote the ranked lists from the four channels. For each candidate memory f , let
ri (f ) denote its rank in list Ri (with ri (f ) = ∞ if f ∈
                                                          / Ri ). The fused score is:
                                                  4
                                                  X        1
                                      RRF(f ) =                                                     (15)
                                                   i=1
                                                       k + ri (f )

where k is a small constant (e.g., k = 60). Intuitively, each strategy contributes a larger amount
when it places f near the top of its list, and items that appear high in multiple lists accumulate more
evidence.
RRF has several advantages over score-based fusion in this setting. Because it is rank-based, it
does not rely on raw scores being calibrated across systems. It is also robust to missing items. If a
candidate does not appear in a particular list, that strategy simply contributes nothing rather than
penalizing it. Finally, memories that are consistently retrieved across different channels naturally rise
to the top, reflecting multi-evidence support.

4.2.4   N EURAL C ROSS -E NCODER R ERANKING
After RRF fusion, TEMPR applies a neural cross-encoder reranker to refine precision on the top
candidates. We use cross-encoder/ms-marco-MiniLM-L-6-v2, which jointly encodes the query and
each candidate memory and outputs a relevance score. Let CE(Q, f ) denote the cross-encoder score.
The final ranking is:
                                Rfinal = argsortf ∈RRRF CE(Q, f )                            (16)
Compared to purely embedding-based similarity, the cross-encoder can model rich query-document
interactions learned from supervised passage-ranking data, rather than relying on independent vector
representations. In our setting, we also include formatted temporal information in the input text,
allowing the reranker to incorporate simple temporal cues when deciding which memories are most
relevant.

4.2.5   T OKEN B UDGET F ILTERING
In the final stage, TEMPR enforces the caller’s token budget so that the selected memories fit
within the downstream LLM’s context window. Starting from the reranked list Rfinal , we iterate over
candidates in order and include each memory’s text until the cumulative token count reaches the
specified k:
                                                   n
                                                   X               n+1
                                                                   X
                      Routput = {f1 , . . . , fn :   |fi | ≤ k and     |fi | > k}               (17)
                                                i=1                  i=1

where fi ∈ Rfinal are ordered by relevance. This simple packing step ensures that the model receives
as much relevant information as possible without exceeding its context capacity.


5   CARA: C OHERENT A DAPTIVE R EASONING AGENTS

As described earlier, CARA (Coherent Adaptive Reasoning Agents) implements the reflect operation.
Given the long-term memory bank built and maintained by TEMPR, CARA turns retrieved facts
and observations into preference-conditioned reasoning and a layer of explicitly stored opinions
that can change over time. CARA treats an agent’s behavioral profile as a first-class part of the
system configuration rather than as a one-off prompt decoration. Each memory bank is associated
with a configurable disposition profile (skepticism, literalism, empathy) and a concise background
description, and CARA uses this profile when forming and updating opinions over the world and
experience networks.
Concretely, CARA provides four key capabilities: disposition-profile integration, H INDSIGHT mem-
ory integration, opinion formation and reinforcement, and background merging with conflict resolu-
tion.


                                                   11
Hindsight Technical Report




5.1     M OTIVATION

To motivate CARA, consider two configurations of the same agent discussing remote work.
In the first configuration, given a behavioral profile with low skepticism (S = 1), flexible interpretation
(L = 2), and high empathy (E = 5), an agent might form the opinion: “Remote work enables creative
flexibility and spontaneous innovation.”
In the second configuration, given high skepticism (S = 5), highly literal interpretation (L = 5), and
low empathy (E = 1), the same facts might instead yield: “Remote work lacks the structure and
accountability needed for consistent performance.”
Both configurations access identical factual information from the H INDSIGHT memory bank, but
their behavioral profiles bias how they weight different aspects (viz. flexibility vs. structure) and
what conclusions they draw. CARA provides a mechanism to specify such behavioral profiles and to
systematically shape opinion formation and updating as a function of these configuration choices.

5.2     P REFERENCE M ODEL

CARA first defines a preference space that can be parameterized and verbalized for prompting.

5.2.1    D ISPOSITION PARAMETERS
We use a three-dimensional disposition space as an interpretable set of ordered preference dimensions.
Let Θ = (S, L, E, β) denote a behavioral profile where:
                    S ∈ {1, . . . , 5} (Skepticism; 1 = trusting, 5 = skeptical)                      (18)
                    L ∈ {1, . . . , 5} (Literalism; 1 = flexible, 5 = literal)                        (19)
                    E ∈ {1, . . . , 5} (Empathy; 1 = detached, 5 = empathetic)                        (20)
                    β ∈ [0, 1] (Bias strength: controls influence of preferences)                     (21)

The bias strength parameter β controls how strongly the behavioral profile should shape opinion
formation. When β = 0, reasoning is primarily fact-based. When β = 0.5, there is moderate
influence from the behavioral profile. When β = 1, there is strong preference-conditioned behavior.

Rationale for using Disposition Parameters. We adopt these dimensions because they offer a
compact, interpretable parameterization of reasoning style (trusting vs. skeptical, flexible vs. literal,
detached vs. empathetic), intuitive axes that can be verbalized in prompts (e.g., “skeptical but highly
empathetic”), and a simple interface for users configuring different agent styles.

Intended Effects on Reasoning. CARA uses the behavioral profile to modulate prompts so that
different configurations encourage different emphases when forming opinions. The mapping from
preference values to reasoning behavior is achieved through natural language verbalization in system
prompts. Higher Skepticism encourages more cautious evaluation of claims, greater emphasis on
evidence quality, and reluctance to accept unsupported statements; lower Skepticism encourages
more trusting and exploratory behavior. Similarly, higher Literalism encourages closer attention
to exact wording and explicit instructions; lower Literalism encourages reading between the lines,
inferring implicit goals, and using abstraction. Finally, higher Empathy encourages taking emotional
context and interpersonal impact into account, using more supportive and face-saving language; lower
Empathy encourages more blunt, task-first communication.

5.3     BANK P ROFILE S TRUCTURE

Each memory bank has an associated profile that encodes the agent’s identity and disposition
configuration in a form suitable for prompting and reasoning. Formally, a bank profile is a tuple:
                                             P = (n, Θ, h)                                            (22)
where n is the agent’s name, Θ = (S, L, E, β) is the behavioral profile, and h is a short background
description written in the first person.


                                                    12
Hindsight Technical Report




Figure 4: CARA’s reflect loop. Given an input query, the agent recalls memories via TEMPR, builds
context, loads the bank-specific profile (background and disposition), and performs disposition-
conditioned generation, updating opinion and observation memories.


5.3.1    P REFERENCE D ESCRIPTION G ENERATION
The numeric behavioral profile Θ is verbalized into natural language so it can be injected into system
messages. Let ϕ : Θ → String be a verbalization function that converts numeric values to descriptive
text. For example:
   ϕ(Θ) = “You are generally trusting, interpret language flexibly, and are highly empathetic ..."
                                                                                                 (23)
This verbalization connects the numeric preference configuration to the LLM’s behavior by providing
an explicit description of how the agent is intended to reason and communicate.

5.4     O PINION N ETWORK AND O PINION F ORMATION

5.4.1    O PINION S TRUCTURE
Opinions are stored in the opinion network O, separate from world and bank facts. Each opinion
is a self-contained memory that records both the judgment and the context in which it was formed.
Formally, an opinion is a tuple:
                                        o = (t, c, τ, b, E)                                  (24)
where t is the opinion statement (including a brief rationale), c ∈ [0, 1] is the confidence score
representing strength of conviction, τ is the timestamp when the opinion was formed, b is the bank
identifier, and E is the set of entities mentioned in the opinion.

5.4.2    O PINION F ORMATION P ROCESS
Opinion formation sits at the interface between TEMPR and CARA (Figure 4). When a query
calls for a subjective judgment, CARA performs the following steps (see Appendix A.2 for the
complete opinion formation prompt template): 1) use TEMPR to retrieve relevant world facts and
experiences (and any existing opinions) for the query Q, where FQ = Recall(B, Q, k) is the retrieved
set; 2) construct a system message s that includes the bank’s name n, background h, and verbalized
behavioral profile ϕ(Θ); 3) run a reflect step in which the LLM produces both a natural language
answer r and candidate opinion updates, where the generation is conditioned on s, FQ , and the
behavioral profile Θ; and 4) parse the structured output and store any new or updated opinions in the
opinion network O.


                                                 13
Hindsight Technical Report




      Trusting, Flexible, Empathetic Profile (S = 1, L = 2, E = 5)

      Opinion Formed:
      “Remote work is a net positive because it removes commute time and creates space for
      more flexible, self-directed work.”
      Emphasis: Autonomy, flexibility, creative freedom



      Skeptical, Literal, Detached Profile (S = 5, L = 5, E = 1)

      Opinion Formed:
      “Remote work risks undermining consistent performance because it makes it harder to
      maintain structure, oversight, and shared routines.”
      Emphasis: Structure, accountability, consistency


Figure 5: Example of preference-conditioned opinion formation. Two agents with opposite behavioral
profiles access identical facts about remote work but form different opinions based on their configured
disposition parameters.



The behavioral profile Θ and its bias-strength parameter β determine how strongly this reflect step is
encouraged to lean into the configured style. For low bias values (β ≈ 0), system messages emphasize
objectivity and downplay stylistic constraints. For intermediate values (β ≈ 0.5), they balance factual
neutrality with preference-conditioned behavior. For high bias values (β ≈ 1), prompts explicitly
encourage stronger, more opinionated language aligned with the specified preferences.
Each opinion formed in this way includes a confidence score c ∈ [0, 1], which we interpret as belief
strength. Values near 1.0 indicate very strong conviction, mid-range values indicate moderate or
tentative beliefs, and low values indicate weak, easily revisable views. This scalar makes it possible
to track not only what the agent believes, but also how firmly it holds those beliefs, which is important
when opinions are later reinforced or revised as new evidence arrives.
Figure 5 illustrates how different behavioral profiles lead to systematically different opinions when
presented with the same factual evidence.


5.5   O PINION R EINFORCEMENT

So far, we have described how CARA forms new opinions. In a long-lived system, those opinions
should also be able to evolve as new information is retained. When new facts arrive via TEMPR’s
retain pathway, CARA updates any related opinions in three steps:
1) Identify Candidates. Use entity overlap and semantic similarity to find opinions that are plausibly
related to the new facts. For each new fact f with entities Ef and embedding vf , we identify candidate
opinions:

                        Ocand = {o ∈ O : |Eo ∩ Ef | > 0 or sim(vo , vf ) > θ}                       (25)


where sim(vo , vf ) is the cosine similarity between the opinion and fact embeddings, and θ is a
similarity threshold.
2) Assess the Evidence. For each candidate opinion o ∈ Ocand , classify the relationship be-
tween the new facts and the current opinion. Let Assess(o, f ) be a function that returns one of
{reinforce, weaken, contradict, neutral} based on LLM analysis of the relationship.
3) Apply an Update. Adjust the opinion’s confidence score (and, for strong contradictions or
refinements, optionally its text) according to the assessed relationship. Let c be the current confidence


                                                   14
Hindsight Technical Report




      Background Merging Example

      Current Background:
      “I was born in Colorado.”
      New Snippet:
      “You were born in Texas and have 10 years of startup experience.”
      Merged Background:
      “I was born in Texas and have 10 years of startup experience.”


Figure 6: Example of background merging. The conflicting birthplace is resolved in favor of the new
information, and the new work-history detail is added.


and c′ be the updated confidence. The update rule is:
                           
                            min(c + α, 1.0)     if Assess(o, f ) = reinforce
                           
                             max(c  − α, 0.0)    if Assess(o, f ) = weaken
                           
                      c′ =                                                                            (26)
                           
                            max(c − 2α, 0.0) if Assess(o, f ) = contradict
                           
                             c                   if Assess(o, f ) = neutral
where α ∈ (0, 1) is a step size parameter. For contradicting evidence, we may also update the opinion
text t to reflect the new nuance.
The update logic is designed to keep opinion trajectories stable but responsive. Small amounts
of evidence lead to small changes, preventing opinions from oscillating in response to individual
examples, while repeated reinforcement or strong contradictions can substantially shift the confidence.
The behavioral profile can also influence how quickly opinions move (for example, a more cautious
configuration may use a smaller α), although we leave detailed exploration of such settings to future
work.
Overall, reinforcement ensures that opinions reflect both the system’s initial configuration (via
the behavioral profile Θ) and its subsequent evidence, rather than being fixed at creation time or
overwritten wholesale when new information appears.

5.6   BACKGROUND M ERGING

In addition to opinions, an agent’s background description h evolves as users provide more biographi-
cal information. If handled naively, this can quickly lead to contradictions or unwieldy, concatenated
prompts.
Over time, new background snippets may complement existing information (e.g., adding work history
where none existed), conflict with prior statements (e.g., “born in Texas” vs. “born in Colorado”),
or refine previous information (e.g., “works in tech” vs. “works as a machine learning engineer at a
startup”).
To keep the background coherent, CARA uses an LLM-powered merging procedure. Given the
current background h and a new snippet hnew , we prompt the model to produce a revised background
h′ that 1) resolves direct conflicts in favor of the new information when appropriate, 2) appends
non-conflicting details to enrich the description, 3) maintains a consistent first-person voice (“I” rather
than “You”), and 4) remains concise (e.g., targeting a length under a few hundred characters).
Formally, the merging function is:
                                        h′ = MergeLLM (h, hnew )                                      (27)

Figure 6 illustrates this process. As a preprocessing step, user-provided snippets are normalized into
first person before merging, so that inputs such as “You are a creative engineer” become “I am a
creative engineer.” This keeps the internal representation consistent with the way backgrounds are
referenced in prompts. By maintaining a single, merged background per bank, CARA keeps identity
information compact and coherent even as new biographical details accumulate over time.


                                                    15
Hindsight Technical Report




5.7     P REFERENCE -C ONDITIONED R EASONING E XAMPLES

We conclude this section with brief examples showing how CARA produces distinct and evolving
viewpoints using the same underlying memory.

5.7.1    E XAMPLE : O PINION E VOLUTION
CARA’s reinforcement mechanism also supports opinion change over time. Suppose a bank starts
with the opinion:
      o0 = (“Python is the best general-purpose language for data science”, c0 = 0.70, τ0 )            (28)

As new facts are retained via TEMPR, related evidence can strengthen or weaken this belief. For
instance, a fact about Python’s dominant ecosystem in AI/ML might lead to a modest increase in
confidence:
      o1 = (“Python is the best general-purpose language for data science”, c1 = 0.85, τ1 )            (29)

Later facts about performance advantages and growing adoption of alternatives (e.g., Julia or Rust in
certain domains) might decrease confidence and encourage a more qualified opinion:
             o2 = (“Python is strong for data science but has trade-offs”, c2 = 0.55, τ2 )             (30)

In this way, opinions become trajectories rather than static labels. They start from an initial, preference-
conditioned formation step and are subsequently adjusted as new evidence accumulates.
Taken together, these mechanisms show how CARA turns the static memory structures provided by
TEMPR into a configurable, preference-conditioned reasoning process. In Section 6, we combine
TEMPR and CARA into the unified H INDSIGHT architecture and examine the end-to-end properties
and empirical behavior of the full system.

6     P UTTING IT ALL TOGETHER : U NIFIED H INDSIGHT A RCHITECTURE

We have now described TEMPR, which implements Hindsight’s retain and recall operations (Sec-
tion 4), and CARA, which implements the reflect operation (Section 5). In this section, we show how
these components compose into a single end-to-end system and highlight the system-level properties
that emerge from their interaction. At a high level, Hindsight turns raw conversational input into a
structured memory bank and then uses that bank to support preference-conditioned reasoning over
time.

6.1     I NTEGRATION : R ETAIN , R ECALL , R EFLECT

The Hindsight system integrates TEMPR and CARA into a unified architecture centered on three
core operations. We summarize each operation here for completeness, using the same definitions
introduced in Section 3.

Retain. The retain operation stores information into memory banks. Formally, given a memory
bank B and input data D, the retain function is:
                               Retain(B, D) → M′ = {W ′ , B ′ , O′ , S ′ }                             (31)
where M′ is the updated four-network memory structure. The retain pipeline performs the following
steps: 1) LLM-powered fact extraction with temporal ranges to convert D into a set of structured facts
F = {f1 , . . . , fn }; 2) entity recognition and resolution to map entity mentions to canonical entities E;
3) graph link construction to create edges of type temporal, semantic, entity, and causal in the memory
graph G = (V, E); 4) automatic opinion reinforcement for existing beliefs when new evidence
arrives, where for each opinion o ∈ O, we identify related new facts and update the confidence score
according to the reinforcement rules defined in Section 5; and 5) background merging to keep the
bank profile coherent over time using the merging function h′ = MergeLLM (h, hnew ).


                                                    16
Hindsight Technical Report




Recall. The recall operation retrieves memories using multi-strategy search. Formally, given a
memory bank B, query Q, and token budget k, the recall function is:
                                    Recall(B, Q, k) → {f1 , . . . , fn }                           (32)
       Pn
where i=1 |fi | ≤ k and the returned facts are ordered by relevance. The recall pipeline performs
the following steps: 1) four-way parallel retrieval (semantic, keyword, graph, temporal) to generate
candidate sets Rsem , Rbm25 , Rgraph , Rtemp ; 2) Reciprocal Rank Fusion to combine ranked lists using
                                                   X                     1
                          RRF(f ) =                                                                (33)
                                                                k + rankR (f )
                                     R∈{Rsem ,Rbm25 ,Rgraph ,Rtemp }

                   Pn reranking for final precision using CE(Q, f ) scores; and 4) token budget
3) neural cross-encoder
filtering to ensure i=1 |fi | ≤ k by greedily selecting the top-ranked facts until the budget is
exhausted.

Reflect. The reflect operation generates preference-conditioned responses. Formally, given a
memory bank B, query Q, and preference profile Θ, the reflect function is:
                                    Reflect(B, Q, Θ) → (r, O′ )                               (34)
where r is the generated response and O′ is the updated opinion network. The reflect pipeline
performs the following steps: 1) use TEMPR to retrieve relevant memories from world, experience,
opinion, and observation networks: FQ = Recall(B, Q, k); 2) load the bank’s preference profile
Θ = (S, L, E, β) and background h; 3) generate a response whose reasoning and tone are influenced
by the configured preferences and bias-strength parameter β, where the generation is conditioned
on the system message s = Verbalize(n, h, Θ) and retrieved facts FQ ; 4) form new opinions with
confidence scores when appropriate, where for each new opinion o = (t, c, τ, b, E), we add o
to the opinion network O; and 5) store opinions for future retrieval and reinforcement, updating
O′ = O ∪ {o1 , . . . , om }.
Together, these operations define a full loop: new experiences are retained into structured memory,
recalled as needed for a given query, and reflected upon in a way that updates the agent’s beliefs and
identity configuration.

7     E XPERIMENTS
We evaluate H INDSIGHT on two long-term conversational memory benchmarks to measure its ability
to retain, recall, and reason over extended interactions. Our evaluation focuses on how well the
system maintains coherent memory across many sessions and whether TEMPR and CARA together
support accurate, preference-conditioned reasoning.

7.1     DATASETS

We use two benchmarks designed to test long-term memory in conversational agents.

7.1.1    L ONG M EM E VAL
LongMemEval Wu et al. (2024) tests chat assistants on conversations that span many sessions and
require recalling information from hundreds of thousands of tokens. The benchmark includes 500
questions that evaluate five core abilities:
        • Information Extraction (IE): Retrieving basic facts from past conversations.
        • Multi-session Reasoning (MR): Connecting information across different sessions.
        • Temporal Reasoning (TR): Understanding when events occurred and their temporal rela-
          tionships.
        • Knowledge Update (KU): Handling updated or contradictory information over time.
        • Abstention (ABS): Recognizing when information is not available rather than guessing.
The benchmark provides two conversation settings: the S setting with around 115,000 tokens
spanning roughly 50 sessions, and the M setting with approximately 1.5 million tokens across about
500 sessions. Both settings test the same abilities but at different scales.


                                                     17
Hindsight Technical Report




              Statistic                              LongMemEval           LoCoMo
              Number of conversations                 Varies (S/M)             50
              Questions                                    500               Varies
              Avg. turns per conversation                   –                304.9
              Avg. tokens per conversation         115k (S), 1.5M (M)       9,209.2
              Avg. sessions per conversation         50 (S), 500 (M)          19.3
              Max sessions                                 500                 35
              Multimodal                                   No             Yes (images)
              Core abilities tested            5 (IE, MR, TR, KU, ABS)    Memory recall

                    Table 2: Statistics for LongMemEval and LoCoMo datasets.


7.1.2    LOCOMO
LoCoMo Maharana et al. (2024) evaluates very long-term conversational memory using 50 human-
human conversations collected over multiple sessions. Each conversation averages 304.9 turns,
9,209.2 tokens, and 19.3 sessions, with some extending up to 35 sessions. The dataset includes
multimodal information such as images shared during conversations, making it more realistic than
text-only benchmarks. Questions test whether agents can recall personal details, preferences, past
events, and context shared across distant sessions.
Table 2 summarizes statistics for both benchmarks.

7.2     E VALUATION M ETRICS

We use an LLM-as-a-judge approach to evaluate response quality (see Appendix A.4 for the complete
judge prompt templates). For each test question, H INDSIGHT generates a response using its memory
retrieval and reflection pipeline. We then present both the generated response and the ground truth
answer to a separate judge LLM, which scores the response on correctness and completeness.
The judge assigns binary correctness scores (0 or 1) for factual accuracy, checking whether the
response contains the correct information and does not introduce errors. For questions requiring
multi-hop reasoning or temporal awareness, the judge also checks whether the response demon-
strates appropriate use of retrieved memories and temporal context. For the abstention ability in
LongMemEval, we measure whether H INDSIGHT correctly declines to answer when information is
missing, rather than guessing or hallucinating facts.

7.3     E XPERIMENTAL S ETUP

We evaluate H INDSIGHT using GPT-OSS-20b as the underlying LLM for both TEMPR’s fact
extraction and CARA’s reflection operations. All experiments use the same model configuration to
isolate the contribution of the memory architecture from model-specific improvements. For evaluation,
we use GPT-OSS-120b as the judge LLM with temperature set to 0.0 to ensure consistent and
deterministic scoring across all responses.
During retention, we process each conversation session through TEMPR’s extraction pipeline, which
produces narrative facts, builds entity links, and updates the memory graph. For each test question, we
retrieve memories using the four-way parallel recall mechanism (semantic, keyword, graph, temporal)
with Reciprocal Rank Fusion and neural reranking. Retrieved memories are then passed to CARA’s
reflection step, which generates the final response conditioned on the bank’s behavioral profile.
We configure memory banks with neutral behavioral profiles (disposition parameters skepticism,
literalism, and empathy all set to 3) and low bias strength (0.2) for these experiments, since the
benchmarks test factual recall rather than preference-conditioned reasoning. This setup allows us to
measure the core memory and retrieval capabilities without introducing strong opinion formation.
Token budgets for retrieval are set to <add> tokens for LongMemEval and <add> tokens for LoCoMo,
balancing coverage and context efficiency. These budgets are well within the context windows of
modern LLMs while providing enough retrieved information for multi-hop reasoning.
For the Hindsight (OSS-20B) configuration, both the memory stack (TEMPR and CARA) and the
answer generation model are instantiated with GPT-OSS-20b. For the Hindsight (OSS-120B) and


                                                  18
Hindsight Technical Report




 Question Type               Full-context   Full-context     Zep      Supermemory   Supermemory   Supermemory   Hindsight    Hindsight    Hindsight
                              (GPT-4o)      (OSS-20B)      (GPT-4o)     (GPT-4o)      (GPT-5)      (Gemini-3)   (OSS-20B)   (OSS-120B)   (Gemini-3)
 single-session-user            81.4           38.6          92.9        97.1           97.1         98.6         95.7        100.0         97.1
 single-session-assistant       94.6           80.4          80.4        96.4          100.0         98.2         94.6         98.2         96.4
 single-session-preference      20.0           20.0          56.7        70.0           76.7         70.0         66.7         86.7         80.0
 knowledge-update               78.2           60.3          83.3        88.5           87.2         89.7         84.6         92.3         94.9
 temporal-reasoning             45.1           31.6          62.4        76.7           81.2         82.0         79.7         85.7         91.0
 multi-session                  44.3           21.1          57.9        71.4           75.2         76.7         79.7         81.2         87.2
 Overall                        60.2           39.0          71.2        81.6           84.6         85.2         83.6         89.0         91.4


Table 3: Results on LongMemEval benchmark (S setting, 500 questions). H INDSIGHT with
OSS-120B achieves 89.0% overall accuracy, and with Gemini-3 Pro achieves 91.4%, outperforming
all baseline systems including Supermemory with frontier models. The Full-context (OSS-20B)
baseline shows the performance of the same base model without the H INDSIGHT memory architecture,
demonstrating a +44.6% improvement with OSS-20B. Best result in each row shown in bold. All
values shown as percentages.


Hindsight (Gemini-3) configurations, the Hindsight memory system itself (fact extraction, memory
graph construction, and retrieval) is powered by GPT-OSS-120b. The Hindsight (Gemini-3)
rows in both benchmarks use Gemini-3 Pro only as the final answer generator over the retrieved
memories, while the underlying memory architecture and the LLM-as-a-judge remain based on
GPT-OSS-120b.

Baseline results.               We describe next how we benchmark H INDSIGHT against existing approaches.
For LongMemEval (Table 3), baseline scores for Full-context GPT-4o, Zep (GPT-4o), and the
three Supermemory configurations (GPT-4o, GPT-5, Gemini-3 Pro) are taken directly from the
Supermemory technical report and use their published GPT-4o LLM-as-a-judge setup.
For LoCoMo (Table 4), baseline scores for Backboard, Memobase, Zep, Mem0, Mem0-Graph,
LangMem, and OpenAI are presented here as claimed on the official Backboard LoCoMo benchmark
results. We treat these numbers as reported reference points rather than our independently reproduced
baselines.
Our Hindsight results on both benchmarks are evaluated with a GPT-OSS-120B LLM-as-a-judge for
all methods to ensure consistent scoring; in the Gemini-3 configuration, Gemini-3 is used only for
answer generation, while memory retrieval and judging remain powered by GPT-OSS-120B.
Readers wishing to reproduce our results or re-evaluate H INDSIGHT can download our code and
re-run benchmarks as described in Section 8. We provide access to our Github repository and an
interactive results viewer.


7.4      R ESULTS ON L ONG M EM E VAL

Table 3 compares H INDSIGHT to full-context baselines and prior memory systems on the Long-
MemEval S setting. The two Full-context baselines pass the entire conversation history to the model
as raw context without any structured memory, while Zep and Supermemory pair dedicated memory
layers with strong frontier models (GPT-4o, GPT-5, Gemini-3). In contrast, our primary configuration
uses a smaller open-source 20B model (GPT-OSS-20B) for both retention and reflection, chosen to
be deployable on a single high-end consumer GPU rather than only in large datacenter settings.
Despite this weaker base model, H INDSIGHT with OSS-20B achieves 83.6% overall accuracy, a
+44.6 point gain over the Full-context OSS-20B baseline (39.0%), and even surpasses Full-context
GPT-4o (60.2%). Relative to other memory systems, H INDSIGHT +OSS-20B matches or exceeds
the performance of Zep+GPT-4o (71.2%) and Supermemory+GPT-4o (81.6%), demonstrating that
the memory architecture, rather than sheer model size, is carrying much of the performance. The
largest gains over the Full-context OSS-20B baseline appear exactly in the long-horizon categories
LongMemEval was designed to stress: multi-session questions improve from 21.1% to 79.7% and
temporal reasoning from 31.6% to 79.7%, and preference questions increase from 20.0% to 66.7%,
indicating that TEMPR’s graph- and time-aware retrieval substantially mitigates context dilution at
scale.


                                                                            19
Hindsight Technical Report




    Method                   Single-Hop     Multi-Hop      Open Domain       Temporal      Overall
    Backboard                   89.36        75.00            91.20            91.90        90.00
    Memobase (v0.0.37)          70.92        46.88            77.17            85.05        75.78
    Zep                         74.11        66.04            67.71            79.79        75.14
    Mem0-Graph                  65.71        47.19            75.71            58.13        68.44
    Mem0                        67.13        51.15            72.93            55.51        66.88
    LangMem                     62.23        47.92            71.12            23.43        58.10
    OpenAI                      63.79        42.92            62.29            21.71        52.90
    Hindsight (OSS-20B)         74.11        64.58            90.96            76.32        83.18
    Hindsight (OSS-120B)        76.79        62.50            93.68            79.44        85.67
    Hindsight (Gemini-3)        86.17        70.83            95.12            83.80        89.61

Table 4: Results on LoCoMo benchmark. Accuracy (%) by question type and overall for prior
memory systems and our HINDSIGHT architecture with different backbone models. Backboard
numbers are taken from their reported figures and could not be independently reproduced. H INDSIGHT
with Gemini-3 Pro attains a very similar overall score and the best Open Domain performance. See
Section 8 for links to our github code repository and an interactive results viewer for all H INDSIGHT
runs.


Scaling the underlying model further amplifies these gains. With OSS-120B, H INDSIGHT reaches
89.0% overall accuracy, outperforming Supermemory with GPT-4o and GPT-5 (81.6% and 84.6%),
and with Gemini-3 Pro it attains 91.4%, the best result across all systems and model backbones.
Because the Full-context OSS-20B baseline uses the same base model as H INDSIGHT but with no
structured memory, the consistent improvements across all question types provide direct evidence
that the memory layer drives the observed performance rather than frontier-scale parameters alone.

7.5    R ESULTS ON L O C O M O

Table 4 reports accuracy on LoCoMo. Across all backbone sizes, H INDSIGHT consistently outper-
forms prior open memory systems such as Memobase, Zep, Mem0, and LangMem, raising overall
accuracy from 75.78% (Memobase) to 83.18% with OSS-20B and 85.67% with OSS-120B. With
Gemini-3 as the answer generator, H INDSIGHT attains 89.61% overall accuracy and the highest Open
Domain score (95.12%), effectively matching Backboard’s claimed 90.00% overall performance
while doing so with a fully open-source memory stack, released evaluation code, and an interactive
results viewer (Section 8). These results show that the gains from our memory architecture on
LongMemEval transfer to realistic, multi-session human conversations.

8     C ODE AVAILABILITY

We release our implementation of H INDSIGHT at https://github.com/vectorize-io/
hindsight . The repository provides (i) the full memory architecture, including retain/re-
call/reflect pipelines and the four-network memory representation; (ii) scripts and configuration
files to run LongMemEval and LoCoMo with different backbones and judging setups; and (iii)
utilities for fact extraction, graph construction, and analysis of retrieved memories. To facili-
tate inspection and comparison of runs, we also provide the H INDSIGHT Benchmarks Viewer
at https://hindsight-benchmarks.vercel.app/, which hosts per-question results that
users can drill into, retrieved memory contexts, model and judge configurations, and aggregate metrics
for all H INDSIGHT variants reported in this paper.

9     C ONCLUSION

We have introduced H INDSIGHT, an approach to treat agent memory as a first-class substrate for
reasoning, rather than a thin retrieval layer around a stateless model. By organizing an agent’s long-


                                                 20
Hindsight Technical Report




term memory into world, bank, observation, and opinion networks and implementing retain, recall,
and reflect as explicit operations, the architecture separates evidence from synthesized summaries
and beliefs while remaining compatible with modern LLMs. Our experimental results demonstrate
that this structure matters in practice and clearly leads to significant improvements in performance.
Looking ahead, we see several directions for extending this work. On the modeling side, learning
to jointly optimize fact extraction, graph construction, and retrieval—–rather than treating them as
fixed pipelines—–could further improve robustness and efficiency, especially in noisy, open-domain
settings. A reinforcement learning loop would be ideal to explore the interplay between retain, recall,
and reflect as done here.
On the application side, we plan to integrate H INDSIGHT with richer tool-use and workflow orches-
tration, exploring more diverse benchmarks than the conversational setting considered here. Finally,
extending the opinion and belief layer to support controlled forgetting, time-aware belief revision,
and privacy-aware memory management offers a path toward long-lived agents.

R EFERENCES
Qingyao Ai, Yichen Tang, Changyue Wang, Jianming Long, Weihang Su, and Yiqun Liu. Mem-
  orybench: A benchmark for memory and continual learning in llm systems. arXiv preprint
  arXiv:2510.17281, 2025.
Prateek Chhikara, Dev Khant, Saket Aryan, Taranjeet Singh, and Deshraj Yadav. Mem0: Building
  production-ready ai agents with scalable long-term memory. arXiv preprint arXiv:2504.19413,
  2025.
Jen-tse Huang, Kaiser Sun, Wenxuan Wang, and Mark Dredze. Llms do not have human-like working
  memory. arXiv preprint arXiv:2505.10571, 2025.
Junming Liu, Yifei Sun, Weihua Cheng, Haodong Lei, Yirong Chen, Licheng Wen, Xuemeng Yang,
  Daocheng Fu, Pinlong Cai, Nianchen Deng, et al. Memverse: Multimodal memory for lifelong
  learning agents. arXiv preprint arXiv:2512.03627, 2025.
Adyasha Maharana, Dong-Ho Lee, Sergey Tulyakov, Mohit Bansal, Francesco Barbieri, and
 Yuwei Fang. Evaluating very long-term conversational memory of llm agents. arXiv preprint
  arXiv:2402.17753, 2024.
Charles Packer, Vivian Fang, Shishir_G Patil, Kevin Lin, Sarah Wooders, and Joseph_E Gonzalez.
  Memgpt: Towards llms as operating systems. 2023.
Preston Rasmussen, Pavlo Paliychuk, Travis Beauvais, Jack Ryan, and Daniel Chalef. Zep: a temporal
  knowledge graph architecture for agent memory. arXiv preprint arXiv:2501.13956, 2025.
Lianlei Shan, Shixian Luo, Zezhou Zhu, Yu Yuan, and Yong Wu. Cognitive memory in large language
  models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2504.02441, 2025.
Mohammad Tavakoli, Alireza Salemi, Carrie Ye, Mohamed Abdalla, Hamed Zamani, and J Ross
 Mitchell. Beyond a million tokens: Benchmarking and enhancing long-term memory in llms.
 arXiv preprint arXiv:2510.27246, 2025.
Zixuan Wang, Bo Yu, Junzhe Zhao, Wenhao Sun, Sai Hou, Shuai Liang, Xing Hu, Yinhe Han, and
  Yiming Gan. Karma: Augmenting embodied ai agents with long-and-short term memory systems.
  In 2025 IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA), pp. 1–8. IEEE, 2025.
Di Wu, Hongwei Wang, Wenhao Yu, Yuwei Zhang, Kai-Wei Chang, and Dong Yu. Longmemeval:
  Benchmarking chat assistants on long-term interactive memory. arXiv preprint arXiv:2410.10813,
  2024.
Yaxiong Wu, Sheng Liang, Chen Zhang, Yichao Wang, Yongyue Zhang, Huifeng Guo, Ruiming
  Tang, and Yong Liu. From human memory to ai memory: A survey on memory mechanisms in the
  era of llms. arXiv preprint arXiv:2504.15965, 2025.
Wujiang Xu, Zujie Liang, Kai Mei, Hang Gao, Juntao Tan, and Yongfeng Zhang. A-mem: Agentic
 memory for llm agents. arXiv preprint arXiv:2502.12110, 2025.


                                                  21
Hindsight Technical Report




Sikuan Yan, Xiufeng Yang, Zuchao Huang, Ercong Nie, Zifeng Ding, Zonggen Li, Xiaowen
  Ma, Kristian Kersting, Jeff Z Pan, Hinrich Schütze, et al. Memory-r1: Enhancing large lan-
  guage model agents to manage and utilize memories via reinforcement learning. arXiv preprint
  arXiv:2508.19828, 2025.
Dianxing Zhang, Wendong Li, Kani Song, Jiaye Lu, Gang Li, Liuchun Yang, and Sheng Li. Memory
  in large language models: Mechanisms, evaluation and evolution. arXiv preprint arXiv:2509.18868,
  2025a.
Zeyu Zhang, Quanyu Dai, Xiaohe Bo, Chen Ma, Rui Li, Xu Chen, Jieming Zhu, Zhenhua Dong, and
  Ji-Rong Wen. A survey on the memory mechanism of large language model-based agents. ACM
  Transactions on Information Systems, 43(6):1–47, 2025b.




                                               22
Hindsight Technical Report




Appendix
Table of Contents
      A System Prompts                                                                                    23
        A.1 Fact Extraction Prompt (TEMPR) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              23
        A.2 Opinion Formation Prompt (CARA) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                 24
        A.3 Observation Generation Prompt (TEMPR) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                 24
        A.4 LongMemEval Judge Prompts . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .               25
        A.5 Structured Output Schemas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             27



A     S YSTEM P ROMPTS
This appendix provides the complete prompt templates used in the H INDSIGHT framework for fact
extraction, opinion formation, observation generation, and evaluation.

A.1    FACT E XTRACTION P ROMPT (TEMPR)

The fact extraction prompt is used to convert conversational transcripts into structured narrative facts
with temporal ranges, entities, and causal relationships.
    Fact Extraction System Prompt

    User Prompt:
    Extract facts from text into structured format with FOUR required dimensions - BE EXTREMELY
    DETAILED.

    FACT FORMAT - ALL FIVE DIMENSIONS REQUIRED - MAXIMUM VERBOSITY

    For EACH fact, CAPTURE ALL DETAILS - NEVER SUMMARIZE OR OMIT:
    1) what: WHAT happened - COMPLETE description with ALL specifics (objects, actions, quantities,
    details)
    2) when: WHEN it happened - ALWAYS include temporal info with DAY OF WEEK
            • Always include the day name: Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, Saturday,
              Sunday
            • Format: “day_name, month day, year” (e.g., “Saturday, June 9, 2024”)
    3) where: WHERE it happened or is about - SPECIFIC locations, places, areas, regions (if applicable)
    4) who: WHO is involved - ALL people/entities with FULL relationships and background
    5) why: WHY it matters - ALL emotions, preferences, motivations, significance, nuance
            • For assistant facts: MUST include what the user asked/requested that triggered this!
    Plus: fact_type, fact_kind, entities, occurred_start/end (for structured dates), where (structured location)
    VERBOSITY REQUIREMENT: Include EVERY detail mentioned. More detail is ALWAYS better
    than less.

    COREFERENCE RESOLUTION (CRITICAL)

    When text uses BOTH a generic relation AND a name for the same person, LINK THEM!
    Example:
            • Input: “My roommate Emily got married. She works at Google.”
            • Correct: “Emily (the user’s roommate) got married. She works at Google.”



                                                        23
Hindsight Technical Report




          • Wrong: Treating “my roommate” and “Emily” as separate entities



A.2   O PINION F ORMATION P ROMPT (CARA)

The opinion formation prompt is used during the reflect operation to extract and form new opinions
from generated responses.

   Opinion Formation System Prompt

   User Prompt:
   Extract any NEW opinions or perspectives from the answer below and rewrite them in FIRST-PERSON
   as if YOU are stating the opinion directly.
   ORIGINAL QUESTION:
   {query}
   ANSWER PROVIDED:
   {text}
   Your task: Find opinions in the answer and rewrite them AS IF YOU ARE THE ONE SAYING THEM.
   An opinion is a judgment, viewpoint, or conclusion that goes beyond just stating facts.
   IMPORTANT: Do NOT extract statements like:
          • “I don’t have enough information”
          • “The facts don’t contain information about X”
          • “I cannot answer because...”
   ONLY extract actual opinions about substantive topics.

   CRITICAL FORMAT REQUIREMENTS:

   1) ALWAYS start with first-person phrases: “I think...”, “I believe...”, “In my view...”, “I’ve come to
   believe...”, “Previously I thought... but now...”
   2) NEVER use third-person: Do NOT say “The speaker thinks...” or “They believe...” - always use “I”
   3) Include the reasoning naturally within the statement
   4) Provide a confidence score (0.0 to 1.0)
   CORRECT Examples (First-Person):
          • “I think Alice is more reliable because she consistently delivers on time and writes clean code”
          • “Previously I thought all engineers were equal, but now I feel that experience and track record
            really matter”
          • “I believe reliability is best measured by consistent output over time”
          • “I’ve come to believe that track records are more important than potential”



A.3   O BSERVATION G ENERATION P ROMPT (TEMPR)

The observation generation prompt synthesizes factual observations about entities from multiple
underlying facts without behavioral profile influence.

   Observation Generation System Prompt

   System Message:
   You are an objective observer synthesizing facts about an entity. Generate clear, factual observations
   without opinions or behavioral profile influence. Be concise and accurate.

   User Prompt:
   Based on the following facts about “{entity_name}”, generate a list of key observations.



                                                     24
Hindsight Technical Report




   FACTS ABOUT {ENTITY_NAME}:
   {facts_text}
   Your task: Synthesize the facts into clear, objective observations about {entity_name}.
   GUIDELINES:
          1. Each observation should be a factual statement about {entity_name}
          2. Combine related facts into single observations where appropriate
          3. Be objective - do not add opinions, judgments, or interpretations
          4. Focus on what we KNOW about {entity_name}, not what we assume
          5. Include observations about: identity, characteristics, roles, relationships, activities
          6. Write in third person (e.g., “John is...” not “I think John is...”)
          7. If there are conflicting facts, note the most recent or most supported one

   EXAMPLES of good observations:
           • “John works at Google as a software engineer”
           • “John is detail-oriented and methodical in his approach”
           • “John collaborates frequently with Sarah on the AI project”
           • “John joined the company in 2023”
   EXAMPLES of bad observations (avoid these):
           • “John seems like a good person” (opinion/judgment)
           • “John probably likes his job” (assumption)
           • “I believe John is reliable” (first-person opinion)

   Generate 3-7 observations based on the available facts. If there are very few facts, generate fewer
   observations.




A.4     L ONG M EM E VAL J UDGE P ROMPTS


The judge prompts are used in the LongMemEval benchmark to evaluate whether model responses
are correct. Different prompts are used for different question types.




A.4.1    S INGLE -S ESSION AND M ULTI -S ESSION Q UESTIONS


   Judge Prompt: Single/Multi-Session Questions

   I will give you a question, a correct answer, and a response from a model. Please answer yes if the
   response contains the correct answer. Otherwise, answer no. If the response is equivalent to the correct
   answer or contains all the intermediate steps to get the correct answer, you should also answer yes. If
   the response only contains a subset of the information required by the answer, answer no.
   Question: {question}
   Correct Answer: {answer}
   Model Response: {response}
   Is the model response correct?
   You may provide reasoning, but you MUST end your response with your final answer in the format:
   \boxed{yes} or \boxed{no}



                                                        25
Hindsight Technical Report




A.4.2   T EMPORAL R EASONING Q UESTIONS


   Judge Prompt: Temporal Reasoning Questions

   I will give you a question, a correct answer, and a response from a model. Please answer yes if the
   response contains the correct answer. Otherwise, answer no. If the response is equivalent to the correct
   answer or contains all the intermediate steps to get the correct answer, you should also answer yes. If
   the response only contains a subset of the information required by the answer, answer no. In addition,
   do not penalize off-by-one errors for the number of days. If the question asks for the number of
   days/weeks/months, etc., and the model makes off-by-one errors (e.g., predicting 19 days when the
   answer is 18), the model’s response is still correct.
   Question: {question}
   Correct Answer: {answer}
   Model Response: {response}
   Is the model response correct?
   You may provide reasoning, but you MUST end your response with your final answer in the format:
   \boxed{yes} or \boxed{no}




A.4.3   K NOWLEDGE U PDATE Q UESTIONS


   Judge Prompt: Knowledge Update Questions

   I will give you a question, a correct answer, and a response from a model. Please answer yes if the
   response contains the correct answer. Otherwise, answer no. If the response contains some previous
   information along with an updated answer, the response should be considered as correct as long as the
   updated answer is the required answer.
   Question: {question}
   Correct Answer: {answer}
   Model Response: {response}
   Is the model response correct?
   You may provide reasoning, but you MUST end your response with your final answer in the format:
   \boxed{yes} or \boxed{no}




A.4.4   P REFERENCE Q UESTIONS


   Judge Prompt: Preference Questions

   I will give you a question, a rubric for desired personalized response, and a response from a model.
   Please answer yes if the response satisfies the desired response. Otherwise, answer no. The model does
   not need to reflect all the points in the rubric. The response is correct as long as it recalls and utilizes
   the user’s personal information correctly.
   Question: {question}
   Rubric: {answer}
   Model Response: {response}
   Is the model response correct?
   You may provide reasoning, but you MUST end your response with your final answer in the format:
   \boxed{yes} or \boxed{no}



                                                       26
Hindsight Technical Report




A.4.5    A BSTENTION Q UESTIONS

   Judge Prompt: Abstention Questions

   I will give you an unanswerable question, an explanation, and a response from a model. Please answer
   yes if the model correctly identifies the question as unanswerable. The model could say that the
   information is incomplete, or some other information is given but the asked information is not.
   Question: {question}
   Explanation: {answer}
   Model Response: {response}
   Does the model correctly identify the question as unanswerable?
   You may provide reasoning, but you MUST end your response with your final answer in the format:
   \boxed{yes} or \boxed{no}


A.5     S TRUCTURED O UTPUT S CHEMAS

Hindsight uses Pydantic models to enforce structured output from LLM calls. This ensures reliable
parsing and validation of extracted information.

A.5.1    FACT S CHEMA

   Fact Extraction Schema (Pydantic)

   class ExtractedFact(BaseModel):
       # Five required dimensions
       what: str # Complete description with ALL specifics
       when: str # Temporal info with day of week
       where: str # Specific locations, places, areas
       who: str   # All people/entities with relationships
       why: str   # Emotions, preferences, motivations

          # Classification
          fact_type: Literal["world", "experience", "opinion"]

          # Optional structured fields
          occurred_start: Optional[str] = None
          occurred_end: Optional[str] = None
          mentioned_at: Optional[str] = None
          entities: Optional[List[Entity]] = None
          causal_relations: Optional[List[CausalRelation]] = None

   class Entity(BaseModel):
       text: str # Named entity as it appears

   class CausalRelation(BaseModel):
       target_fact_index: int # Index of related fact
       relation_type: Literal[
           "causes", "caused_by", "enables", "prevents"
       ]
       strength: float # 0.0 to 1.0


A.5.2    O PINION S CHEMA

   Opinion Extraction Schema (Pydantic)

   class Opinion(BaseModel):
       opinion: str # First-person opinion statement
       confidence: float # 0.0 to 1.0
       reasoning: str # Why this opinion was formed



                                                   27
Hindsight Technical Report




   class OpinionExtractionResponse(BaseModel):
       opinions: List[Opinion] = Field(
           default_factory=list,
           description="List of opinions extracted from text"
       )


A.5.3   O BSERVATION S CHEMA

   Observation Extraction Schema (Pydantic)

   class Observation(BaseModel):
       observation: str # Factual statement about entity

   class ObservationExtractionResponse(BaseModel):
       observations: List[Observation] = Field(
           default_factory=list,
           description="List of observations about entity"
       )




                                         28
